Vision Support Services
COMPLIANCE STATEMENT & HUMAN TRAFFICKING ACT 2015

COMPLIANCE STATEMENT
& HUMAN TRAFFICKING
ACT 2015

visionsupportservices.com

1

2

Vision Support Services
COMPLIANCE STATEMENT & HUMAN TRAFFICKING ACT 2015

Introduction

This statement sets out Vision Support Services Ltd.’s actions to
understand all potential modern slavery risks related to its business
and to put in place steps that are aimed at ensuring, where reasonably
practicable, that no slavery or human trafficking occurs within its own
business and its supply chains.
As part of our global supply chain, the organisation recognises that
it has a responsibility to take a robust approach to slavery and
human trafficking.
Vision Support Services Ltd is committed to maintaining and
improving systems and processes to avoid complicity in human
rights violations related to our own operations, our supply chain,
and our products.
We realise that slavery and human trafficking can occur in many forms,
such as forced labour, child labour, domestic servitude, sex trafficking
and workplace abuse. Therefore throughout this statement, we, Vision
Support Services Ltd. use the terms ‘slavery and human trafficking to
encompass all these various forms of coerced labour.
As outlined in detail below, we take certain steps, to ensure that
slavery and human trafficking are not taking place in our supply
chains or other parts of our business. Our financial projections lead
us to believe that our first published Slavery and Human Trafficking
statement will be published in the financial year 2016/2017. We
acknowledge that this is a work in progress and aim to review all
aspects of our supply chain within the next five years.
To this end, we have established an integrated approach to managing
human rights across our business, including risks related to slavery and
trafficking. Organisational structure and supply chains.
This statement covers the activities of Vision Support Services Ltd:
Vision Support Services Ltd. is the leading supplier and distributor
of luxury, performance and specialist textiles in the global
accommodation, retail and healthcare markets

Vision Support Services
COMPLIANCE STATEMENT & HUMAN TRAFFICKING ACT 2015

3

Organisational Chart

Dan Wright
Chairman

Laurie Thomas
Managing Director

Mark Doyle

Group Finance Director

Michelle Pegg

John Keeling

Group Operations Director

Group Director

Keith Rowlands

Fraser Donaldson

Group Hospitality Sales & Marketing Director

Group Retail Director

Vision
Pakistan

Key Account
Directors

Sales
Office

Office Sales
Manager

CRM
Manager

Head Of
Marketing

Customer
Services

Financial
Controller

E-Commerce

Support

HOU

HOEC

Vision
China

Vision
India

Product &
Supply Chain
Director

Assurance & Compliance Manager
Logistics Controller
Purchasing Controller
Warehouse Manager

Tony Willis
Government

4

Vision Support Services
COMPLIANCE STATEMENT & HUMAN TRAFFICKING ACT 2015

Countries of operation and supply
The organisation currently operates in the following countries:
United Kingdom

China

Ireland

Turkey

India

Dubai

Pakistan

We assess whether or not particular activities or countries are a
higher risk in relation to slavery or human trafficking by:
Undertaking a stringent risk assessment process in relation to our
operations inside and outside the UK.
Firstly by an initial written questionnaire to be completed by all of
our key suppliers, ensuring that they, the supplier, have strong antislavery or human trafficking policies in place, and these polices are
enforced, and also that they, the supplier (and their manufacturing/
supply chains) are also fully compliant with the Modern Slavery Act
of 2015.
Secondly, by having our own premises and representatives in each
country of supply which allows us to carry out spot checks on
site and have ready access to “on the ground” information can be
obtained to oversee this process.We also ensure that our Purchase
Controller and Operations Director regularly visit our supply
partners .
Thirdly, by independent audit of our suppliers through accredited
auditing bodies (BSCI/SMETA).

Vision Support Services
COMPLIANCE STATEMENT & HUMAN TRAFFICKING ACT 2015

High-risk activities
The following activities are considered to be at a higher risk of
slavery or human trafficking:
The manufacture and production processes for our product lines,
is not UK based so any workforce involved in this manufacturing
process could potentially be exploited/ be at high risk in relation
to slavery or human trafficking, thus failing to meet one or more
areas of policy and so not being compliant with the Modern Slavery
Act of 2015. Our Labour Standards Assurance System, which is
third party verified via Eco Vadis and presence in manufacturing
countries are used to mitigate this risk.

Responsibility
Responsibility for the organisation’s anti-slavery initiatives is as
follows:
•

Our Assurance and Compliance Manager is responsible for putting in
place any anti-slavery initiatives / human trafficking policies. They also
hold the responsible for the regular review of these policies and the
processes by which they were developed/ are being developed to be
within guidelines.

•

Our Assurance and Compliance Manager has broad organisational
responsibility for human rights and modern slavery risk analysis,
looking at processes/ ongoing reviews/ regular actions in this area
to ensure Vision Support Services Ltd. are compliant, meeting the
requirements of the act.

•

The Operations Director has responsibility to ensure we meet our
anti-slavery or human trafficking policies and responsible for
investigations and due diligence in relation to known or suspected
instances of slavery and human trafficking. This is achieved by the
undertaking of reviews of the supplier’s statements of compliance.
Steps are taken to verify, evaluate and address risks of slavery of any
form in the supply chain.

Training
Vision Support Services Ltd has provided training to key staff with
responsibility for compliance to the Act.

5

6

Vision Support Services
COMPLIANCE STATEMENT & HUMAN TRAFFICKING ACT 2015

Relevant Policies

The organisation operates the following policies that describe
its approach to the identification of modern slavery risks and
steps to be taken to prevent slavery and human trafficking in
its operations:
Whistleblowing Policy
The organisation encourages all its workers, customers and other
business partners to report any concerns related to the direct
activities, or the supply chains of the organisation.
This includes any circumstances that may give rise to an
enhanced risk of slavery or human trafficking. The organisation’s
whistleblowing procedure is designed to make it easy for workers to
make disclosures, without fear of retaliation. Employees, customers
or others who have concerns can report it in a number of ways
either by using the Modern Slavery Website https://modernslavery.
co.uk/report-it.html or by calling on 0800 0121 700 or by following
our Whistleblowing Policy.
Employee code of conduct
The organisation’s code is outlined in the Corporate and Social
Responsibility Policy and our employee’s handbook makes clear to
all employees the actions and behaviour expected of them when
representing the organisation. The organisation strives to maintain
the highest standards of employee conduct and ethical behaviour at
all times
Supplier/Procurement code of conduct
The organisation is committed to ensuring that its suppliers
adhere to the highest standards of ethics. Suppliers are required
to demonstrate that they provide safe working conditions, treat
workers with dignity and respect, and act ethically and within the
law in their use of labour. The organisation works with suppliers to
ensure that they meet the standards of the code and improve their
worker’s working conditions. However, serious violations of the
organisation’s supplier code of conduct will lead to the termination
of the business relationship. We require all chains of supply/
procurement routes to complete a statement of compliance in
relation to the Modern Slavery Act 2015.

Vision Support Services
COMPLIANCE STATEMENT & HUMAN TRAFFICKING ACT 2015

Recruitment policy
The organisation uses only specified, reputable employment
agencies to source our labour and always verifies the practices of
any new agency we may wish to work with, before accepting any
workers or placing recruitment requirements for employees from
that agency.
Any other policies relevant to the organisation’s business or sector.
Our organisation has a policy, as outlined in our employee’s
handbook, that remuneration is above the minimum wage level. We
ensure all employees have the right to work in the United Kingdom.
As part of our labour standards assessm ent, we also ensure that
our suppliers are paying their workers in accordance with local
legislation.
Due diligence
The organisation undertakes due diligence when considering taking
on new suppliers, and regularly reviews its existing suppliers.
The organisation’s due diligence and reviews include:
•

Mapping the supply chain broadly to assess particular product or
geographical risks of modern slavery and human trafficking;

•

Evaluating the modern slavery and human trafficking risks of each new
supplier, we undertake a full review of all new suppliers, requiring their
written statement of compliance to the Modern Slavery Act of 2015,
giving 30 days maximum notice to provide a statement of compliance.

•

Seeking demonstration of effective modern slavery and human
trafficking policies and practices to be in place before beginning
trading.

•

Reviewing on a regular basis all aspects of the supply chain based on
the supply chain mapping;

•

Conducting supplier audits and assessments through the organisation’s
own staff, which have a greater degree of focus on slavery and human
trafficking where general risks are identified;

•

Reviewing of previous independent reports (SMETA ,BSCI) to look
at trends, improvements or areas for improvement.

7

8

Vision Support Services
COMPLIANCE STATEMENT & HUMAN TRAFFICKING ACT 2015

Performance Indicators

Indicators 2017
The organisation has reviewed its key performance indicators (KPIs)
in light of the introduction of the Modern Slavery Act 2015. As a result,
the organisation is:
•

Requiring designated staff to have completed training on modern
slavery by August 2017;
This was successfully completed by July 2017.

•

Reviewed the system for supply chain verification
This has been completed

•

Reviewed our existing supply chains expected to be completed
by January 2018.
This was completed and the results have formed our programme
for 2018 to 2021.

Vision Support Services
COMPLIANCE STATEMENT & HUMAN TRAFFICKING ACT 2015

Indicators 2018 to 2021
Sector

Probability
in Sector

Probability in
Geographical

Overall Risk

Action

Finance

Low

Low

Low

Keep under review

Micro

High

Medium

High

Further analysis required

Service Industry

High

Medium

High

Further analysis required

Medium

Medium

Medium

Keep under review

High

High

High

Further analysis required

Medium

Medium

Medium

Keep under review

Low

Low

Low

Keep under review

Logistics
Textile
Hire Companies
Auditors

The above conclusion have aided the establishment of indicators going forward.

2018
We will look to analyse and review the Micro, Service and Textile
industries. Formulating action plans that will aid us in understanding
the problems and potential issues in these sectors and working
through mitigations with our suppliers.
Update
This review was undertaken. A lack of understanding of the provisions
of the Act and a lack of knowledge that this had entered the statute
books has resulted in a lack of understanding when the review took
place. This has been addressed with our micro suppliers and although
the probability in the sector as a whole remains high, we firmly believe
that within this sector of our supply chain no modern slavery exists.
2019 to 2020
We will continue our work from 2018 and review all sectors that are
not seen as low risk areas. Action plans and communication initiatives
to be developed to be able to proactively look at these sectors.
2021
A full review will commence.

9

10

Vision Support Services
COMPLIANCE STATEMENT & HUMAN TRAFFICKING ACT 2015

Awareness

Awareness-Raising Programme
It is our intention during the next financial year to raise awareness of
modern slavery issues by putting up posters across the organisation’s
premises and using the monthly staff newsletter to ensure that this
issue remains prominent.
This was achieved in 2018. Modern Slavery awareness was also
embedded for all staff within the companies induction programme.
Through our awareness programme we have also aided one of our
large international suppliers in becoming compliant with the Modern
Slavery Act. They now display their statement prominently on their
web site and have started to review their supply chain as a whole.

We explain to staff:
•

The basic principles of the Modern Slavery Act 2015;

•

How employers can identify and prevent slavery and
human trafficking;

•

What employees can do to flag up potential slavery or human
trafficking issues to the relevant parties within the organisation.

•

What external help is available, for example through the
Modern Slavery Helpline.

Vision Support Services
COMPLIANCE STATEMENT & HUMAN TRAFFICKING ACT 2015

Board Approval

This statement has been approved by the organisation’s board
of directors, who will review and update it annually.

Signature:

Director:

Date:

11

12

Vision Support Services
COMPLIANCE STATEMENT & HUMAN TRAFFICKING ACT 2015

visionsupportservices.com

