Compliance Statement
Slavery and Human
Trafficking Act 2015

Introduction
This statement sets out Vision Support Services Ltd.’s actions to understand all potential modern
slavery risks related to its business and to put in place steps that are aimed at ensuring, where
reasonably practicable, that no slavery or human trafficking occurs within its own business and its
supply chains.
As part of our global supply chain, the organisation recognises that it has a responsibility to take a
robust approach to slavery and human trafficking.
Vision Support Services Ltd is committed to maintaining and improving systems and processes to
avoid complicity in human rights violations related to our own operations, our supply chain, and
our products.
We realise that slavery and human trafficking can occur in many forms, such as forced labour,
child labour, domestic servitude, sex trafficking and workplace abuse. Therefore throughout this
statement, we, Vision Support Services Ltd. use the terms ‘slavery and human trafficking to
encompass all these various forms of coerced labour.
As outlined in greater detail below, we take certain steps, to ensure that slavery and human
trafficking are not taking place in our supply chains or other parts of our business. Our financial
projections lead us to believe that our first published Slavery and Human Trafficing statement will
be published in the financial year 2016/2017. We acknowledge that this is a work in progress and
aim to review all aspects of our supply chain within the next five years.
To this end, we have established an integrated approach to managing human rights across our
business, including risks related to slavery and trafficking. Organisational structure and supply
chains.
This statement covers the activities of Vision Support Services Ltd:
Vision Support Services Ltd. is the leading supplier and distributor of luxury, performance and
specialist textiles in the global accommodation, retail and healthcare markets

Our Managerial Organisational Chart

Countries of operation and supply
The organisation currently operates in the following countries:
United Kingdom
Ireland
India
Pakistan
China
Turkey
Dubai
2

visionsupportservices.com

We assess whether or not particular activities or countries are a higher risk in relation to slavery or
human trafficking by:
Undertaking a stringent risk assessment process in relation to our operations inside and outside
the UK.
Firstly by an initial written questionnaire to be completed by all of our key suppliers, ensuring that
they, the supplier, have strong anti-slavery or human trafficking policies in place, and these polices
are enforced, and also that they, the supplier (and their manufacturing/supply chains) are also fully
compliant with the Modern Slavery Act of 2015.
Secondly by having our own premises and representatives in each country of supply which allows
us to carry out spot checks on site and have ready access to “on the ground” information can be
obtained to oversea this process.
Thirdly by independent audit of our suppliers through accredited auditing bodies (BSCI/SMETA).
High-risk activities
The following activities are considered to be at a higher risk of slavery or human trafficking:
The manufacture and production processes for our product lines, is not UK based so any
workforce involved in this manufacturing process could potentially be exploited/ be at high risk in
relation to slavery or human trafficking, thus failing to meet one or more areas of policy and so not
being compliant with the Modern Slavery Act of 2015. Our Labour Standards Assurance System
and presence in manufacturing countries are used to mitigate this risk.
Responsibility
Responsibility for the organisation's anti-slavery initiatives is as follows:
• Our Assurance and Compliance Manager is responsible for putting in place any anti-slavery
initiatives / human trafficking policies. They also hold the responsible for the regular review of
these policies and the processes by which they were developed/ are being developed to be within
guidelines.
• Our Assurance and Compliance Manager has broad organisational responsibility for human
rights and modern slavery risk analysis, looking at processes/ ongoing reviews/ regular actions in
this area to ensure Vision Support Services Ltd. are compliant, meeting the requirements of the
act.
• The Operations Director has responsibility to ensure we meet our anti-slavery or human
trafficking policies and responsible for investigations and due diligence in relation to known or
suspected instances of slavery and human trafficking. This is achieved by the undertaking of
reviews of the supplier’s statements of compliance. Steps are taken to verify, evaluate and
address risks of slavery of any form in the supply chain.
Training
Vision Support Services Ltd has provided training to key staff with responsibility for compliance to
the Act.

Relevant policies
The organisation operates the following policies that describe its approach to the identification of
modern slavery risks and steps to be taken to prevent slavery and human trafficking in its
operations:
• Whistleblowing Policy
The organisation encourages all its workers, customers and other business partners to report any
concerns related to the direct activities, or the supply chains of the organisation. This includes any
circumstances that may give rise to an enhanced risk of slavery or human trafficking. The
organisation's whistleblowing procedure is designed to make it easy for workers to make
disclosures, without fear of retaliation. Employees, customers or others who have concerns can
report it in a number of ways either by using the Modern Slavery Website
https://modernslavery.co.uk/report-it.html or by calling on 0800 0121 700 or by completing
following our Whistleblowing Policy.
• Employee code of conduct
The organisation's code is outlined in the Corporate and Social Responsibility Policy and our
employees handbook makes clear to all employees the actions and behaviour expected of them
when representing the organisation. The organisation strives to maintain the highest standards of
employee conduct and ethical behaviour at all times
• Supplier/Procurement code of conduct
The organisation is committed to ensuring that its suppliers adhere to the highest standards of
ethics. Suppliers are required to demonstrate that they provide safe working conditions where
necessary, treat workers with dignity and respect, and act ethically and within the law in their use
of labour. The organisation works with suppliers to ensure that they meet the standards of the
code and improve their worker's working conditions. However, serious violations of the
organisation's supplier code of conduct will lead to the termination of the business relationship. We
require all chains of supply/procurement routes to complete a statement of compliance in relation
to the Modern Slavery Act 2015.
• Recruitment policy.
The organisation uses only specified, reputable employment agencies to source our labour and
always verifies the practices of any new agency we may wish to work with, before accepting any
workers or placing recruitment requirements for employees from that agency.
• Any other policies relevant to the organisation's business or sector.
Our organisation has a policy, as outlined in our employee’s handbook, that remuneration is above
the minimum wage level we ensure all employees have the right to work in the United Kingdom.
As part of our labour standards assessment we also look to ensure that our suppliers are paying
their workers above the local average wage.

4

visionsupportservices.com

Due diligence
The organisation undertakes due diligence when considering taking on new suppliers, and
regularly reviews its existing suppliers. The organisation's due diligence and reviews include:
• mapping the supply chain broadly to assess particular product or geographical risks of modern
slavery and human trafficking;
• evaluating the modern slavery and human trafficking risks of each new supplier, we undertake a
full review of all new suppliers, requiring their written statement of compliance to the Modern
Slavery Act of 2015, giving 30 days maximum notice to provide a statement of compliance.
• seeking demonstration of effective modern slavery and human trafficking policies and practices
to be in place before beginning trading.
• reviewing on a regular basis all aspects of the supply chain based on the supply chain mapping;
• conducting supplier audits and assessments through the organisation's own staff, which have a
greater degree of focus on slavery and human trafficking where general risks are identified;
Performance indicators
The organisation has reviewed its key performance indicators (KPIs) in light of the introduction of
the Modern Slavery Act 2015. As a result, the organisation is:
• requiring designated staff to have completed training on modern slavery by August 2017;
• reviewed the system for supply chain verification
• reviewed our existing supply chains expected to be completed by January 2018.
Awareness-raising programme
It is our intention during the next financial year to raise awareness of modern slavery issues by
putting up posters across the organisation's premises and using the monthly staff newsletter to
ensure that this issue remains prominent.
We intend to explain to staff:
• the basic principles of the Modern Slavery Act 2015;
• how employers can identify and prevent slavery and human trafficking;
• what employees can do to flag up potential slavery or human trafficking issues to the relevant
parties within the organisation
• what external help is available, for example through the Modern Slavery Helpline.

