2018 NEW BALANCE HUMAN TRAFFICKING
AND MODERN SLAVERY STATEMENT

The New Balance Human Trafficking and Modern Slavery Statement is issued in response
to the reporting requirements of the California Transparency in Supply Chains Act of
2010 (SB 657) and the United Kingdom (UK) Modern Slavery Act of 2015. In addition,
New Balance intends for this statement to help inform consumers, suppliers and other
stakeholders of the company’s efforts to identify and manage risks, as well as remedy
any reported incidents, of human trafficking and modern slavery in our global supply
chain. This statement covers our policies, programs and activities implemented during
the 2018 fiscal year ending December 31. To access previous annual statements, please
see the Archive link on our website.
For more information on New Balance and our commitment to Responsible Leadership,
including our social and environmental programs and performance, please click here.

NEW BALANCE BUSINESS AND SUPPLY
CHAIN

OUR APPROACH: POLICIES AND
GOVERNANCE

New Balance Athletics, Inc., including its
affiliates (New Balance), is a privately-owned
athletic footwear, apparel and sporting goods
company headquartered in Boston, MA with
over 8,000 associates globally. Associated
brands under New Balance include PF Flyers,
Warrior and Brine. New Balance sells products
to consumers through owned retail stores and
online, as well as through global wholesale
markets, distributors and licensees.1

New Balance is committed to doing business
with manufacturers and suppliers that share
our commitment to uphold fundamental
human rights and abide by the standards in
our Supplier Code of Conduct (Code). The
Code has been translated into 39 languages
and is based on the Universal Declaration of
Human Rights and the International Labor
Organization (ILO’s) Core Conventions. The
Code incorporates several principles related
to human trafficking and slavery, including
but not limited to:
• Working conditions
• Workplace health and safety
• Prohibition of child labor
• Prohibition of forced labor; and
• Maintaining a workplace free of
discrimination and harassment.

In 2018, New Balance sourced products from
approximately 200 contract manufacturers
located in 31 countries. New Balance
publishes annually the names and addresses
of direct Tier One suppliers and footwear
subcontractors, organized by country and
product type, on the company’s website.
In addition to working with contract
manufacturers, New Balance owns and
operates five factories in New England as
well as a manufacturing facility in the United
Kingdom. Warrior Sports, Inc. owns and
operates three factories located in Mexico,
the United States and Finland. In an effort to
increase our supply chain transparency, we
have recently also published the list of our
Tier Two wet processing suppliers and our
licensee suppliers.

1. For the purposes of this disclosure, New Balance conducts business in both
California and the UK and brings in annual “gross receipts” worldwide that exceed
$100 million and has an annual turnover of over £36 million.

New Balance also publishes a Supplier
Standards Manual, which provides suppliers
and stakeholders with detailed guidance
on how to implement each element of the
Code. Key requirements designed to protect
against human trafficking include voluntary
employment, freedom of movement, and
elimination of worker recruitment fees. New
Balance considers any forced labor violation
a “zero tolerance” issue, which requires
immediate and thorough remediation to
continue doing business with the company.
New Balance is an accredited member of the
Fair Labor Association (FLA) and FLA most
1

recently reaccredited New Balance’s social
compliance program in 2018. A link to the
New Balance Reaccreditation Report can be
found here.
In 2018, New Balance became a signatory
to the AAFA/FLA Apparel and Footwear
Industry
Commitment
to
Responsible
Recruitment. The commitment reinforces
our work with suppliers that employ migrant
workers to create conditions so that:
• No workers pay for their job;
• Workers retain control of their travel
documents and have full freedom of
movement; and
• All workers are informed of the basic
terms of their employment before
leaving home.
The New Balance Responsible Leadership
Steering Committee maintains oversight of
the policies, programs and strategies that
the company implements to address the
risks of human trafficking and slavery in the
company’s supply chain. The Vice President
of Responsible Leadership, who also heads
the supply chain Global Compliance program,
provides regular updates to Committee
members, including New Balance ownership,
on supplier compliance performance and
critical risks and issues.
Additionally, New Balance pledges to uphold
the highest standards in the company’s
owned manufacturing facilities and for New
Balance associates globally. The company’s
commitment to employee health, safety and
development, as well as ethical recruitment
and hiring, is reflected in the company’s
policies and practices and in accordance with
national and international law.

RISK ASSESSMENT
Human trafficking and slavery risks are most
commonly found in the footwear and apparel
industry where there are migrant workers.
Based on an annual country risk assessment
process, we identified the following countries
in our supply chain as highest risk for forced
labor: China, Haiti, India, Taiwan, Thailand,
Turkey and Vietnam. The risk assessment is
based on data from the US Department of
State (Trafficking in Persons Report) and US
Department of Labor (List of Goods Produced
by Child Labor or Forced Labor), as well
as supplier information and industry nongovernmental organization (NGO) reports.

In 2018, New Balance also worked with thirdparty experts to conduct a human rights
and environmental risk assessment for our
Tier Two supply chain, guided by the United
Nations (UN) Guiding Principles on Business
and Human Rights and the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development
(OECD) Due Diligence Guidance for
Responsible Supply Chains in the Garment
and Footwear Sector. Our assessment
focuses on 12 risk areas identified by the
OECD Guidance, including issues such as
child and forced labor. As an outcome of the
risk assessment, forced labor risks in textile
mills and other material suppliers in Taiwan
were identified as a priority focus area.
The Countering America’s Adversaries
through Sanctions Act (CAATSA), passed in
2017, declared that products manufactured
wholly or in part by North Korean nationals,
including outside of North Korea, are
automatically deemed to have been made
with forced labor and are, therefore,
prohibited from entry into the United States.
As a result, we developed an annual internal
risk assessment process to review potential
supply chain risks for North Korean labor. We
also visited some of our licensee suppliers
and subcontractors to further assess risks
on the ground. In 2019, we will continue to
communicate the risk to our suppliers and
continue implementation of our due diligence
process.

SUPPLIER AUDITS: DUE DILIGENCE,
MONITORING AND REMEDIATION
Suppliers seeking to do business with New
Balance must sign a supply agreement that
includes the obligation to abide by our
Code of Conduct and undergo a compliance
inspection
(audit)
before
production
orders can be placed. Compliance audits
are conducted by members of the New
Balance Global Compliance team or qualified
third parties and may be announced, semiannounced or unannounced audits. The
New Balance audit tool includes verification
of supplier performance against the Code.
In addition to a physical site inspection,
the audit includes interviews with supplier
management and confidential employee
interviews. If a supplier employs foreign or
domestic migrant labor, New Balance applies
additional scrutiny to potential forced labor
risks and concerns.
In cases where noncompliance issues are
found, suppliers must complete a Corrective
Action Plan (CAP). For new suppliers,
2

verification of corrective actions is required
before orders can be placed. For existing
suppliers, they must also implement a CAP
and our team works with them to improve
workplace practices. New Balance’s preferred
approach is to continue working with suppliers
to improve and remedy conditions rather
than to terminate the business relationship.
By staying engaged, New Balance seeks
to improve the lives of those impacted, as
well as help to change industry practices.
However, if compliance violations are serious
or persistent, New Balance will terminate the
business relationship. In 2018, New Balance
ended business relationships with five
suppliers due to various non-compliances that
the factories were not willing to remediate,
including excessive overtime work hours,
illegal wages, refusal to set up a third-party
worker hotline and poor safety conditions in
the factory.
Tier One
In 2018, New Balance assessed over 260
supplier compliance audits of our Tier One
suppliers (including pre-sourcing, annual
and follow-up audits) and observed nine
noncompliance findings at nine different
facilities related to potential forced labor or
restricted access situations (e.g., workers
restricted from leaving the factory during
breaks, restrictions to taking vacation
leave, workers paying fees to be hired at
the factory). Of these nine facilities, one
employed foreign migrant labor. None of
the noncompliance findings involved zero
tolerance forced labor issues, five of the
findings involved high-risk issues in Vietnam
and the Czech Republic. The high-risk issues
identified included foreign migrant workers
who paid for travel expenses from their home
country and workers experiencing restricted
access to restrooms or being able to leave
the factory premises during breaks. Four of
these five noncompliances have been fully
remediated and one case is awaiting a reaudit for verification.
Since New Balance started reporting on
forced labor findings in our Tier One suppliers
in 2016, we have seen marginal improvement
in the number of findings each year – 15
in 2016 and 11 in 2017 and nine in 2018. In
2018, all the suppliers with findings were
existing suppliers, which illustrates the need
for ongoing supplier engagement, training
and awareness. However, we have seen a
decrease in our zero tolerance findings linked
to forced labor each year – five in 2016, three
in 2017 and none in 2018. It is hard to draw
any conclusions from this limited data, but

it may be an indicator that progress is being
made in the industry in Tier One suppliers to
eliminate the most serious forms of forced
labor risk.
Subcontractors
Starting in 2016, New Balance expanded our
compliance program coverage to include
footwear processing subcontractors2 and
measure their performance against our zero
tolerance issues, including forced labor3.
New Balance launched the subcontractor
program both to increase awareness of Tier
One suppliers about these types of serious
issues, as well as to build supplier capabilities
to help manage the risks further down the
supply chain. Out of 85 subcontractor audits
conducted in 2018 (including 24 initial audits),
three of the audits in China involved potential
forced labor issues, where new employees
paid fees for required health checks during
their recruitment process or were not
permitted to resign in the first three months
of employment. The subcontractor factories
have since remediated these violations by
updating their policies and repaying workers
for fees paid during their hiring.
Beyond Tier One
New Balance does not currently require presourcing audits or social compliance audits
for Tier Two raw material and component
suppliers. However, we recognize that the
risk for forced labor may be greater in the
upstream supply chain where business
relationships are more diffuse and where
suppliers often work for multiple industries.
These levels of the supply chain are also
less frequently audited by the footwear and
apparel industry. In 2017, we started work
to map our Tier Two footwear and apparel
supply chain and identified nearly 500
material suppliers in over 20 countries.
As part of our work to address forced
labor risks beyond Tier One, New Balance
is engaging with other brands and external
stakeholders and participating in industry
initiatives to identify and tackle forced
labor issues further upstream in the supply
chain. New Balance is a signatory to the
Uzbekistan Cotton Pledge, which prohibits
the use of cotton sourced from Uzbekistan
in our products due to the documented use
of forced labor in Uzbek cotton production.
In Taiwan, we have been working with other
apparel and footwear brands to identify and
communicate with shared material suppliers
2. Processing subcontractors refers to subcontractors that conduct specialized
processes that Tier One factories may not have the capacity or capability to do inhouse, such as screen printing, high-frequency welding and embroidery.
3. Footwear sales comprise more than 80 percent of total company revenue.

3

about foreign migrant worker labor standards,
including the elimination of recruitment fees.
In 2018, we launched a project with a graduate
student team of the Johns Hopkins University
School of Advanced International Studies to
conduct a gap assessment of strategic Tier
Two suppliers in Taiwan to help inform our
responsible recruitment implementation plan.
In addition, in 2018, New Balance joined a Fair
Labor Association project with other brands
and civil society organizations (CSOs) to
assess the working conditions of the natural
rubber supply chain in Vietnam. Through
this project, we hope to better understand
the labor and human rights risks in rubber
procurement.
In 2018, we also assessed our largest thirdparty distribution center in China. The audit
uncovered that workers were required to pay
health-checks before they could be hired. The
facility has since discontinued this practice
and updated their recruitment policy to pay
for the workers’ pre-employment health
examinations.
Third-Party Grievances
In addition to our supplier monitoring program,
New Balance is expanding communication
channels directly with workers by facilitating
the establishment of confidential grievance
mechanisms for workers in contract
manufacturing facilities. In addition to the
New Balance email address listed on the
supplier Code of Conduct that is available for
any third party to contact us directly, we are
helping to implement third-party operated
worker hotlines in our strategic sourcing
countries of China, Vietnam and Indonesia.
In 2018, New Balance received one thirdparty complaint through a worker hotline in
Vietnam that involved allegations of workers
being forced to work overtime. The factory
remediated this violation by replacing the
factory director who had approved the
practice. A later follow-up audit confirmed
that the forced overtime had not recurred.

TRAINING AND AWARENESS RAISING
The New Balance Global Compliance team
is comprised of approximately 20 staff
members located around the world who
manage and implement the New Balance
supplier compliance program. Team members
visit New Balance suppliers on a regular
basis, conduct factory audits, help suppliers
to implement remediation plans, and
provide trainings to improve supplier selfmanagement capabilities. In 2018, to increase

our team’s awareness and understanding
around the work being done and complexity
of eliminating recruitment fees for foreign
migrant workers, we engaged the Issara
Institute, a civil society organization based
in Thailand, to discuss its work to eliminate
recruitment fees for migrant workers coming
from Myanmar to Thailand with our team. New
Balance also attended a forum in Thailand on
human rights and ethical sourcing to engage
with stakeholders in the region and gain
additional insight on this issue in Thailand. A
number of team members working on forced
labor in our supply chain also completed an
e-learning module on forced labor offered
through the Fair Labor Association.
In 2018, the New Balance Global Compliance
team conducted annual refresher training
on the Global Compliance program for
New Balance associates, located in China,
Hong Kong, Indonesia, Vietnam, the United
Kingdom and the United States. New Balance
also conducted regional supplier workshops
in China, Vietnam and Indonesia, which
included additional awareness training on
zero tolerance issues, including forced labor.
Targeted forced labor training was also
conducted for suppliers and licensees at
regional supplier summits and one-on-one
supplier meetings held in China, Hong Kong,
Japan, Korea and the United States.
This statement was reviewed and approved
by the Board of Directors of New Balance
Athletic Shoes (UK) Limited on June 5, 2019.

Signed

Joe Preston
President & CEO, New Balance Athletics, Inc.
Director, New Balance Athletic Shoes (UK)
Limited
June 7, 2019

4

