2016 New Balance Human Trafficking and Modern Slavery Statement
The New Balance Human Trafficking and Modern Slavery Statement is issued in response to the
reporting requirements of the California Transparency in Supply Chains Act of 2010 (SB 657) and the
United Kingdom (UK) Modern Slavery Act of 2015. In addition, New Balance intends for this statement
to help inform consumers, suppliers, wholesale customers and other stakeholders of the company’s
efforts to identify and manage risks, as well as remedy any reported incidents, of human trafficking and
modern slavery in our global supply chain. This statement covers our policies, programs and activities
implemented during the 2016 fiscal year ending December 31.
New Balance Business and Supply Chain
New Balance Athletics, Inc., including its
affiliates (New Balance), is a privately owned
athletic footwear, apparel and sporting goods
company headquartered in Boston, MA with
over 6,000 associates globally. Associated
brands under New Balance also include PF
Flyers, Warrior and Brine. New Balance sells
products to consumers through owned retail
stores and online, as well as through global
wholesale markets, distributors and licensees. 1
In 2016, New Balance sourced products from
approximately 180 contract manufacturers
located in 32 countries. New Balance publishes
annually the names and addresses of direct Tier
1 suppliers, organized by country, on the
company’s website. In addition to working with
contract manufacturers, New Balance owns and
operates five factories in New England as well
as a manufacturing facility in the United
Kingdom. Warrior Sports, Inc. owns and
operates three factories located in Mexico, the
United States, and Finland.
Our Approach
New Balance is committed to doing business
with manufacturers and suppliers that share
our commitment to uphold fundamental human
1

For the purposes of this disclosure, New Balance
conducts business in both California and the UK and
brings in annual “gross receipts” worldwide that
exceed $100 million, and has an annual turnover of
over £36 million.

rights and abide by the standards in our
Supplier Code of Conduct (Code). The New
Balance Code has been translated into 27
languages and is based on the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights and the
International Labor Organization (ILO’s) Core
Conventions. The Code incorporates several
principles related to human trafficking and
slavery, including but not limited to:
-

Working conditions
Workplace health and safety
Prohibition of child labor
Prohibition of forced labor; and
Maintaining a workplace free of
discrimination and harassment.

New Balance also publishes a Supplier
Standards Manual, which provides suppliers
and stakeholders with detailed guidance on
how to implement each element of the Code.
Key requirements designed to protect against
human
trafficking
include
voluntary
employment, freedom of movement, and
elimination of worker recruitment fees other
than those legally permitted. New Balance
considers any forced labor violation a “Zero
Tolerance” issue, which requires immediate and
thorough remediation in order to continue
doing business with the company.
The New Balance Responsible Leadership
Steering Committee maintains oversight of the
policies, programs and strategies that the
company implements to address the risks of

Page 1 of 3

human trafficking and slavery in the company’s
supply chain. The Committee also receives
regular updates on supplier compliance
performance and critical risks and issues.

KPIs New Balance Uses to Track Performance
on Human Trafficking and Slavery
• Number of pre-sourcing and annual audits
conducted to validate Tier 1 supplier
performance against the NB Code of Conduct

Additionally, New Balance pledges to uphold
the highest standards in the company’s owned
manufacturing facilities and for New Balance
associates globally, which are under the
management of the New Balance Human
Resources Department. The company’s
commitment to employee health, safety and
development, as well as ethical recruitment and
hiring, is reflected in the company’s policies and
practices and in accordance with national and
international law.

• Number of audits conducted to validate Tier
2 and subcontractor performance against the
NB Code of Conduct
• Number of supplier compliance violations
related to potential cases of forced labor and
the number in which corrective actions were
effectively implemented (or business
relations terminated)

Supplier Audits: Due Diligence and Risk
Management
Suppliers seeking to do business with New
Balance must sign a supply agreement that
includes the obligation to abide by our Code of
Conduct and undergo a compliance inspection
(audit) before production orders can be placed.
Compliance audits are conducted by members
of the New Balance Global Compliance team or
qualified third parties and may be announced or
unannounced audits. The audit tool includes
verification of supplier performance against the
Code, and in addition to a physical site
inspection, the audit includes interviews with
the supplier management and confidential
employee interviews. In cases where
noncompliance issues are found, suppliers must
complete a Corrective Action Plan. Verification
of corrective actions is required before orders
can be placed. New Balance’s preferred
approach is to continue working with suppliers
to improve and remedy conditions rather than
to terminate the business relationship. By
staying engaged, New Balance seeks to improve
the lives of those impacted, as well as help to
change industry practices. However, in the
event that compliance violations are serious or
persistent, New Balance will terminate the
business relationship.

• Number of worker or third-party grievances
reported to New Balance related to possible
cases of human trafficking and slavery and
number of cases remediated effectively

Human trafficking and slavery risks are most
commonly found in the footwear and apparel
industry where there are migrant workers. If a
supplier employs foreign or domestic migrant
labor, New Balance gives additional scrutiny to
potential forced labor risks and issues. In 2016,
New Balance and its affiliates conducted over
230 supplier compliance audits of our Tier 1
suppliers (including both pre-sourcing and
annual audits) and observed 15 audits (12
factories total) with noncompliance findings
related to potential forced labor or restricted
access situations (e.g., holding of worker
passports, restricted access to restrooms
and/or personal belongings, inability to reject
overtime without penalties, fine or pressure,
etc.). Out of these 12 factories, eight of them
were factories that employed migrant labor and
five of them involved Zero Tolerance findings.
One Zero Tolerance case involved restricted
movement during breaks and New Balance
terminated the business relationship due to
ineffective remediation of the issue and other

Page 2 of 3

serious noncompliance issues. 2 In the other
four Zero Tolerance cases, the noncompliances,
which included holding passports, payment of
wages through an agent instead of directly to
the employee, and restricted movement, were
successfully remediated.
New Balance does not currently require presourcing audits or certification for Tier 2 raw
material suppliers, component suppliers or
processing facilities. However, in 2016, New
Balance increased the compliance program
coverage of footwear processing subcontractors
into the compliance audit program to measure
performance against a smaller scope of Zero
Tolerance issues, including forced labor. 3 Out of
52 subcontractor audits, none of them included
noncompliance findings of forced labor. New
Balance launched its subcontractor program
both to increase awareness of Tier 1 suppliers
about such issues, as well as to build the
capacity of these suppliers to help manage the
risks further down the supply chain.
New Balance is also expanding our work on
mapping our supply chain beyond Tier 1 to
better assess and prioritize risks, including risks
related to human trafficking and slavery. Based
on industry experience, we recognize that the
risk for human trafficking is greater at lower
levels of the supply chain where business
relationships are more diffuse and where
suppliers often work for multiple industries.
These lower levels of the supply chain are also
less frequently audited by the footwear and
apparel industry. As part of our work, New
Balance is engaging with other brands and
external stakeholders and participating in
industry initiatives to identify and tackle forced

labor issues further down in the supply chain
that would otherwise be hard for one company
acting alone to address effectively.
In addition to our supplier monitoring program,
New Balance is expanding its communication
channels directly with workers by conducting
worker
surveys
and
facilitating
the
establishment of confidential grievance
mechanisms for workers in contract
manufacturing facilities. In 2016, New Balance
did not receive any grievances or third-party
complaints linked to human trafficking and
slavery in our supply chain.
Training
The New Balance Global Compliance team is
comprised of 19 staff members located around
the world who manage and implement the New
Balance supplier compliance program. This
team comprises the front line in visiting New
Balance suppliers and conducting factory audits.
In 2016, New Balance invited Verite to conduct
a refresher training session for the Global
Compliance team on forced labor, including a
review of practical tools and approaches that
can be used during supplier audits to help
identify signs of forced labor as defined by the
International Labor Organization (ILO). In
addition, New Balance conducted annual
refresher training on the Global Compliance
program for New Balance associates, including
representatives from sourcing, development,
and operations, located in China, Hong Kong,
Indonesia, Japan, Vietnam, the United Kingdom
and the United States, as well as conducted
ongoing training for new and existing suppliers.
Part of this training emphasized the desire to
prevent “Zero Tolerance” issues, which includes
forced labor.

2

In 2016, New Balance terminated business
relationships with three other suppliers due to
serious or persistent noncompliance findings, but
they were unrelated to forced labor or human
trafficking.
3
Footwear sales comprise more than 80 percent of
total company revenue.

Rob DeMartini
President & CEO, New Balance Athletics, Inc.

Page 3 of 3

