2017 New Balance Human Trafficking and Modern Slavery Statement
The New Balance Human Trafficking and Modern Slavery Statement is issued in response to the
reporting requirements of the California Transparency in Supply Chains Act of 2010 (SB 657) and the
United Kingdom (UK) Modern Slavery Act of 2015. In addition, New Balance intends for this statement
to help inform consumers, suppliers, wholesale customers and other stakeholders of the company’s
efforts to identify and manage risks, as well as remedy any reported incidents, of human trafficking and
modern slavery in our global supply chain. This statement covers our policies, programs and activities
implemented during the 2017 fiscal year ending December 31.
New Balance Business and Supply Chain
New Balance Athletics, Inc., including its
affiliates (New Balance), is a privately owned
athletic footwear, apparel and sporting goods
company headquartered in Boston, MA with
over 8,000 associates globally. Associated
brands under New Balance include PF Flyers,
Warrior and Brine. New Balance sells products
to consumers through owned retail stores and
online, as well as through global wholesale
markets, distributors and licensees.1
In 2017, New Balance sourced products from
approximately 170 contract manufacturers
located in 32 countries. New Balance publishes
annually the names and addresses of direct Tier
One suppliers, organized by country, on the
company’s website. In addition to working with
contract manufacturers, New Balance owns and
operates five factories in New England as well
as a manufacturing facility in the United
Kingdom. Warrior Sports, Inc. owns and
operates three factories located in Mexico, the
United States and Finland.
Our Approach
New Balance is committed to doing business
with manufacturers and suppliers that share
our commitment to uphold fundamental human

rights and abide by the standards in our
Supplier Code of Conduct (Code). The Code has
been translated into 34 languages and is based
on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights
and the International Labor Organization (ILO’s)
Core Conventions. The Code incorporates
several principles related to human trafficking
and slavery, including but not limited to:
‐
‐
‐
‐
‐

Working conditions
Workplace health and safety
Prohibition of child labor
Prohibition of forced labor; and
Maintaining a workplace free of
discrimination and harassment.

New Balance also publishes a Supplier
Standards Manual, which provides suppliers
and stakeholders with detailed guidance on
how to implement each element of the Code.
Key requirements designed to protect against
human
trafficking
include
voluntary
employment, freedom of movement, and
elimination of worker recruitment fees other
than those legally permitted. New Balance
considers any forced labor violation a “zero
tolerance” issue, which requires immediate and
thorough remediation to continue doing
business with the company.

1

For the purposes of this disclosure, New Balance
conducts business in both California and the UK and
brings in annual “gross receipts” worldwide that
exceed $100 million, and has an annual turnover of
over £36 million.

Page 1 of 4

The New Balance Responsible Leadership
Steering Committee maintains oversight of the
policies, programs and strategies that the
company implements to address the risks of
human trafficking and slavery in the company’s
supply chain. The Committee also receives
regular updates on supplier compliance
performance and critical risks and issues.
Additionally, New Balance pledges to uphold
the highest standards in the company’s owned
manufacturing facilities and for New Balance
associates globally, which are under the
management of the New Balance Human
Resources Department. The company’s
commitment to employee health, safety and
development, as well as ethical recruitment and
hiring, is reflected in the company’s policies and
practices and in accordance with national and
international law.

change industry practices. However, if
compliance violations are serious or persistent,
New Balance will terminate the business
relationship. In 2017, New Balance ended one
business relationship with a supplier due to that
supplier’s falsification of records.
KPIs New Balance Uses to Track Performance
on Human Trafficking and Slavery
 Number of pre‐sourcing and annual audits
conducted to validate Tier One supplier
performance against the New Balance Code
of Conduct
 Number of audits conducted to validate Tier
Two and subcontractor performance against
the New Balance Code of Conduct
 Number of supplier compliance violations
related to potential cases of forced labor and
the number in which corrective actions were
effectively implemented (or business
relations terminated)

Supplier Audits: Due Diligence and Risk
Management
Suppliers seeking to do business with New
Balance must sign a supply agreement that
includes the obligation to abide by our Code of
Conduct and undergo a compliance inspection
(audit) before production orders can be placed.
Compliance audits are conducted by members
of the New Balance Global Compliance team or
qualified third parties and may be announced or
unannounced audits. The audit tool includes
verification of supplier performance against the
Code, and in addition to a physical site
inspection, the audit includes interviews with
the supplier management and confidential
employee interviews. In cases where
noncompliance issues are found, suppliers must
complete a Corrective Action Plan. Verification
of corrective actions is required before orders
can be placed. New Balance’s preferred
approach is to continue working with suppliers
to improve and remedy conditions rather than
to terminate the business relationship. By
staying engaged, New Balance seeks to improve
the lives of those impacted, as well as help to

 Number of worker or third‐party grievances
reported to New Balance related to possible
cases of human trafficking and slavery and
number of cases remediated effectively

Tier One Assessments
Human trafficking and slavery risks are most
commonly found in the footwear and apparel
industry where there are migrant workers. If a
supplier employs foreign or domestic migrant
labor, New Balance gives additional scrutiny to
potential forced labor risks and issues. In 2017,
New Balance and its affiliates conducted over
241 supplier compliance audits of our Tier One
suppliers (including both pre‐sourcing and
annual audits) and observed 11 noncompliance
findings at eight different factories related to
potential forced labor or restricted access
situations (e.g., holding of worker passports,
restricted access to restrooms and/or personal

Page 2 of 4

belongings, inability to reject overtime without
penalties, fine or pressure, etc.). Of these eight
factories, three employed migrant labor and
three of the noncompliance findings involved
zero tolerance issues. Two zero tolerance cases
(one in China and one in Vietnam) involved
restricted movement in the workplace, as
workers were required to obtain supervisor
approval before taking lunch and bathroom
breaks.
Both
suppliers
implemented
management and policy changes to ensure
workers can take breaks freely. In the other
zero tolerance case (located in China), the
noncompliance involved workers’ ability to
resign freely, as the employer withheld end of
year pay until workers returned from holiday.
The supplier has since discontinued this
practice.
Tier Two Assessments
New Balance does not currently require pre‐
sourcing audits or certification for Tier Two raw
material suppliers, component suppliers or
processing facilities. However, starting in 2016,
New Balance increased the compliance program
coverage of footwear processing subcontractors
into the compliance audit program to measure
performance against a smaller scope of zero
tolerance issues, including forced labor.2 New
Balance launched its subcontractor program
both to increase awareness of Tier One
suppliers about such issues, as well as to build
the capacity of these suppliers to help manage
the risks further down the supply chain. Out of
54 subcontractor audits in 2017, one of the
audits in China involved a potential forced labor
issue, where new employees paid fees for
required health checks during their recruitment
process. The subcontractor factory has since
discontinued this practice.
New Balance is also expanding our work on
mapping our supply chain beyond Tier One to
2

Footwear sales comprise more than 80 percent of
total company revenue.

better assess and prioritize risks, including risks
related to human trafficking and slavery. Based
on industry experience, we recognize that the
risk for human trafficking is greater at lower
levels of the supply chain where business
relationships are more diffuse and where
suppliers often work for multiple industries.
These lower levels of the supply chain are also
less frequently audited by the footwear and
apparel industry. As part of our work, New
Balance is engaging with other brands and
external stakeholders and participating in
industry initiatives to identify and tackle forced
labor issues further down in the supply chain.
As a pilot project in one Tier Two raw material
provider in 2017, New Balance engaged with
other brands in a shared textile mill in Taiwan
to address forced labor findings. As a result of
the collaboration, the mill returned passports
and personal identification documents to the
workers, provided them a safe place for storage
of personal affects with 24‐hour access and
took steps to remove disciplinary policies that
were discriminatory toward migrant workers.
Based on this model, New Balance is continuing
to engage with this group to see how further
forced labor risks in our Tier Two supply chain in
Taiwan can be addressed.
Third‐Party Grievances
In addition to our supplier monitoring program,
New Balance is expanding its communication
channels directly with workers by conducting
worker
surveys
and
facilitating
the
establishment of confidential grievance
mechanisms
for workers in contract
manufacturing facilities. In 2017, New Balance
received two third‐party complaints through a
worker hotline in Vietnam involving allegations
of workers’ restricted movement in the
workplace and freedom to take leave. One
worker reported a supervisor restricting
employees from taking leave and limited breaks
during work hours. The employer addressed the
complaint by providing additional training to

Page 3 of 4

ensure the supervisor followed company policy
and that workers’ rights were not restricted.
Another worker contacted the hotline to claim
that employees were restricted from taking
bathroom breaks during work hours. In that
case, the employer implemented system
changes to allow workers to take regular breaks
during work hours.
Training
The New Balance Global Compliance team is
comprised of 19 staff members located around
the world who manage and implement the New
Balance supplier compliance program. This
team comprises the front line in visiting New
Balance suppliers and conducting factory audits.
In 2017, the New Balance Global Compliance
team conducted annual refresher training on
the Global Compliance program for New
Balance associates, including value chain staff,
located in China, Indonesia, Vietnam, the

United Kingdom and the United States. New
Balance also conducted regional supplier
workshops in China, Vietnam and Indonesia
where refresher training was conducted on the
New Balance Code of Conduct, including
awareness training on zero tolerance issues,
including forced labor. Targeted forced labor
training was also conducted for suppliers and
licensees at regional supplier summits and one‐
on‐one supplier meetings held in the Czech
Republic, Hong Kong, Japan and the United
States.

Joe Preston
President & CEO, New Balance Athletics, Inc.

Page 4 of 4

