MODERN SLAVERY
S TAT E M E N T
JOULES GROUP

JOU LES GRO UP M O DER N S L AV ERY S TATEMEN T
F I N A N C I A L Y EA R ENDED 27 MAY 2 0 1 8

INTRODUCTION
Joules is a UK-based premium lifestyle brand which

To cement the close working partnership with our

designs and sells Joules-branded lifestyle clothing,

suppliers, we hold a formal supplier conference in Shanghai

accessories and homeware. The main trading company

every Autumn which allows our suppliers to all come

in the UK is Joules Limited, which is ultimately owned by

together, meet with key member of Joules management and

Joules Group Plc. Joules Group Plc also has subsidiaries in

discuss key topics, which vary from year to year, but will

the US, China and Hong Kong (“the Group”).

always include Joules’ CSR programme.

This is our third statement made pursuant to section

Our supplier contractual terms include obligations on

54(1) of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and constitutes the

suppliers with regard to compliance with the Modern

Group’s slavery and human trafficking statement for the

Slavery Act and ensuring that they do not use trafficked,

financial year ending 27 May 2018.

bonded, child or forced labour. Joules has the contractual

Joules is proud of the steps it has taken to combat slavery
and human trafficking within its supply chain and is
committed to continually improving its practices.
WHAT DO WE MEAN BY ‘MODERN SLAVERY’?
We have derived our definition of Modern Slavery from the
UN guiding principles on human rights:

right to take appropriate action for failure to comply with
these obligations, which includes the right to terminate the
contract and report any wrongdoing.
MONITORING OUR EFFECTIVENESS IN COMBATING
SLAVERY AND HUMAN TRAFFICKING
We have a robust programme in place to ensure that all of
our suppliers are audited by an independent auditor against

Modern Slavery involves one person depriving another

our ethical standards (including those related to modern

of their liberty in order to exploit them for personal or

slavery) and to support our suppliers to consistently

commercial gain.

enhance their practices, with a view to ultimately not just
meeting, but consistently exceeding, our ethical standards

OUR OPERATIONS, POLICIES AND PRACTICES

as well as meeting all other criteria required by local law.

To ensure our products are of the high quality that our

Between October 2017 and May 2018 we undertook audits

customers expect from us we manufacture all over the world.

on 112 factories which included both end product suppliers

We are committed to ensuring that there is no modern

and raw materials suppliers. Our audits are conducted

slavery or human trafficking in our supply chains or in any

using the Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA)

part of our business and take a zero-tolerance approach.

format and, along with internationally recognized 3rd party

Our policies and procedures for suppliers ref lect this
commitment and clearly set out the values, expectations
and strict standards that we expect all of our suppliers to
meet. These policies are clearly communicated to all of our
suppliers and each supplier is required to independently
confirm that they adhere to these. Our ethical standards
are based on the Ethical Trade Initiative (ETI) base code
guidelines and our requirements not only cover modern
slavery, but also our wider expectations in relation to
ethical and responsible sourcing and manufacturing.
We work closely with all of our suppliers to ensure that
they understand, and meet, all of our ethical sourcing
requirements. We have a dedicated sourcing office in

auditing companies and our own auditors, we endeavour to
ensure every factory is assessed annually. The audit scope
covers the following key areas: 1. Prison / Forced Labour, 2.
Freedom of Association, 3. Child Labour, 4. Health & Safety,
5. Wages and benefits, 6. Working Hours, 7. Discrimination,
8. Regular Employment, 9. Disciplinary practices, 10.
Environment. By reviewing these key areas we seek to
ensure that no forced / bonded / child labour is used in
any of the manufacturers we use.
We will continue to assess and reassess within our
manufacturing supply chain to ensure we are only using
those companies that provide the ethical and social
standards for workers that are required.

Shanghai, staffed by over 40 Joules employees, as well as

Our external whistleblowing arrangements remain in place

a team in the UK, allowing us to maintain close working

to allow employees to raise any concerns, on a confidential

relationships with each of our suppliers and helping us

basis if they prefer.

work in partnership with them to consistently deliver
against and meet these requirements.

JOU LES GRO UP M O DER N S L AV ERY S TATEMEN T
F I N A N C I A L Y EA R ENDED 27 MAY 2 0 1 8

CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT
The 2018 supplier conference will be held on 23rd October.
The conference will have a CSR theme with Joules updating
the supply base about our planned pillars for improvement
over next 5 years and there will be guest presentations
from industry bodies such as the Ethical Trade Initiative,
the Better Cotton Initiative and the Leather Working Group.
The Group CFO and other senior management will be in
attendance.
Joules’ ethical standards have been based on the Ethical
Trade Initiative (ETI) base code guidelines for a number of
years, but during the last year we decided to commence
our membership process with the ETI to demonstrate our
commitment to this area. We are pleased that Joules was
formally accepted as a member of ETI in October 2018.
Working closely with this organisation over the coming
years will be an important focus area.
We will continue to build on existing awareness within the
business and identify any training needs.

COLIN PORTER
CEO
Approved by the board of Joules Group Plc
on 25 October 2018

