MODERN SLAVERY
S TAT E M E N T

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 28 MAY 2017

M O D E R N S L A V E R Y S TAT E M E N T
JOULES GROUP PLC
FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 29 MAY 2016
INTRODUCTION
Joules is a UK-based premium lifestyle brand which designs
and sells Joules-branded lifestyle clothing, accessories and
homeware. The main trading company in the UK is Joules
Limited, which is ultimately owned by Joules Group Plc. Joules
Group Plc also has subsidiaries in the US, China and Hong Kong
(“the Group”).
This is our second statement made pursuant to section 54(1) of
the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and constitutes the Group’s slavery
and human trafficking statement for the financial year ending
28 May 2017.
Joules is proud of the steps it has taken to combat slavery and
human trafficking within its supply chain and is committed to
continually improving its practices.
WHAT DO WE MEAN BY ‘MODERN SLAVERY’?
We have derived our definition of Modern Slavery from the UN
guiding principles on human rights:
Modern Slavery involves one person depriving another of their
liberty in order to exploit them for personal or commercial gain.
OUR OPERATIONS, POLICIES AND PRACTICES

MONITORING OUR EFFECTIVENESS IN COMBATING SLAVERY
AND HUMAN TRAFFICKING
We have a robust programme in place to ensure that all of our
suppliers are audited by an independent auditor against our
ethical standards (including those related to modern slavery)
and to support our suppliers to consistently enhance their
practices, with a view to ultimately not just meeting, but
consistently exceeding, our ethical standards as well as meeting
all other criteria required by local law.
Between October 2016 and end of May 2017 we undertook
audits on 117 factories which included 100% of our finished
product suppliers. Our audits are conducted using the Sedex
Members Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA) format and, along with
internationally recognized 3rd party auditing companies and
our own auditors, we endeavour to ensure every factory is
assessed annually. The audit scope covers the following key
areas: 1. Prison / Forced Labour, 2. Freedom of Association,
3. Child Labour, 4. Health & Safety, 5. Wages and benefits, 6.
Working Hours, 7. Discrimination, 8. Regular Employment, 9.
Disciplinary practices, 10. Environment. By reviewing these key
areas we seek to ensure that no forced / bonded / child labour
is used in any of the manufacturers we use.
In addition from the beginning of 2017 we have started an

To ensure our products are of the high quality that our

audit program to cover the same criteria for our nominated

customers expect from us we manufacture all over the world.

raw material suppliers. We will continue to assess and reassess

We are committed to ensuring that there is no modern slavery

within our manufacturing supply chain to ensure we are only

or human trafficking in our supply chains or in any part of our

using those companies that provide the ethical and social

business and take a zero tolerance approach.

standards for workers that are required.

Our policies and procedures for suppliers ref lect this

In September 2016 we held our annual Suppliers’ conference in

commitment and clearly set out the values, expectations and

Shanghai. 50+ suppliers attended and we took the opportunity

strict standards that we expect all of our suppliers to meet.

to discuss Joules CSR and our ongoing ethical and social audit

These policies are clearly communicated to all of our suppliers

program with our 3rd party partner Omega Compliance.

and each supplier is required to independently confirm that
they adhere to these. Our ethical standards are based on the
Ethical Trade Initiative (ETI) base code guidelines and our
requirements not only cover modern slavery, but also our wider
expectations in relation to ethical and responsible sourcing and
manufacturing.
We work closely with all of our suppliers to ensure that they
understand, and meet, all of our ethical sourcing requirements.

Our external whistleblowing arrangements remain in place to
allow employees to raise any concerns, on a confidential basis if
they prefer.
CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT
In the next financial year we will update the Supplier’s Manual
which includes a section on labour practices in accordance with
the International Labour Organization Conventions.

We have a dedicated sourcing office in Shanghai, staffed by over

We will review the process for on-boarding of new logistics

40 Joules employees, as well as a team in the UK, allowing us to

providers to ensure that their anti-slavery practices are in

maintain close working relationships with each of our suppliers

accordance with the above standards.

and helping us work in partnership with them to consistently
deliver against and meet these requirements.

We will continue to build on existing awareness within the
business and identify any training needs.

Our supplier contractual terms include obligations on suppliers
with regard to compliance with the Modern Slavery Act
and ensuring that they do not use trafficked, bonded, child
or forced labour. Joules has the contractual right to take
appropriate action for failure to comply with these obligations,
which includes the right to terminate the contract and report
any wrongdoing.

COLIN PORTER, CEO
Approved by the board of Joules Group Plc
on 3rd November 2017

