GIVENCHY

Introduction

This statement is made pursuant to Section 54 of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and sets out the steps
GIVENCHY SA has taken during its financial year ending 31 December 2016 to ensure that slavery,
servitude, forced or compulsory labour, and human trafficking (collectively, "Modern Slavery") is not taking
place in any part of its business or in its supply chains.

Business

GIVENCHY SA is a French company belonging to the LVMH Mo?t Hennessy Louis-Vuitton SE 
Group. GIVENCHY SA is engaged in the design, manufacture, distribution and sale of women and men
ready-to-wear, luxury bags and leather goods, and more generally luxury fashion accessories bearing
trademarks of a high level of quality and style. GIVENCHY SA distributes its products
worldwide including to retailers in the United Kingdom.

GIVENCHY SA purchases:
Men?s and Women?s ready to wear, shoes, leather goods and accessories from suppliers
located essentially in Italy, France Portugal; and

(ii) Marketing, packaging and Point of Sale Material from suppliers located in various European
countries, including France.

Policies and Practices

commitment is to act with integrity in all its business dealings and to promote ethical conduct,
to enhance compliance with applicable laws and to provide guidance with respect to business conduct.
It has a number of policies that are relevant to this commitment, which set out what GIVENCHY expects
from its employees, internal business and its external suppliers.

Key Policies are:

1. GIVENCHY Suppliers' Code of Conduct ("Suppliers' Code of Conduct") available upon request
GIVENCHY SA expects its suppliers to share its commitments and act in full compliance with the

relevant laws, including all national, local and international laws relating to the management of
their businesses.

GIVENCHY SA requires its suppliers to seek approval before subcontracting any part of their
supply chain process and GIVENCHY's approval is subject to acceptance by the subcontractor of
the Suppliers' Code of Conduct and all other applicable conditions that GIVENCHY SA determines.

 

2. GIVENCHY employee ?s Code of Conduct ("Employees Code of Conduct") available upon
request
The ?Employee Code of Conduct? includes relevant sections on ?Human Rights?, ?Sustainability?
and ?Behavior in Sales Commercial Transactions?.
Our Anti-modern slavery Policy reflects our commitment to acting ethically and with integrity in
all our business relationships and to implementing and enforcing effective systems and controls
to ensure slavery and human trafficking is not taking place anywhere in our supply chains.
GIVENCHY SA expects its employees and suppliers to engage in and promote honest and ethical
conduct, comply with all applicable laws, rules and regulations in their own area and act
responsibly, with due care, competence and diligence when dealing with colleagues, customers,
suppliers, agents and intermediaries.

3, avenue George - 75008 Paris - TelSoci?t? anonyme au capital de 3 000 000 - Siret 552 051 229 00011 - RCS Paris 552 051 229 - APE 1413 Z- TVAFR 44 55 20 51 229
GIVENCHY

The GIVENCHY Code of Conduct reiterates the LVMH Code of Conduct and commitment to act to
the highest standards of integrity, respect and engagement in their behaviours and in the way
that they conduct business every day, everywhere.

This code further states that the group companies will inform all of its commercial partners of its
ethical principles and expectations and will ask its suppliers to comply with the principles set out
in the Suppliers? Code of Conduct. In particular, this code specifies compliance with social issues
to abide, respect and adhere to the company moral and ethical values in the management of the
company concerning Human Rights, working Conditions and environmental issues

Supplier and Contractor Due Diligence

GIVENCHY SA is carefully reviewing its suppliers. Moreover, action has been put in place prior to engaging
into any new contractual relationship with a supplier or contractor. GWENCHY SA requires suppliers and
contractors to confirm that they are complying with the Suppliers? Code of Conduct.

GIVENCHY SA reserves the right to check adherence of its suppliers and contractors to the principles set
out in the Suppliers' Code of Conduct and to conduct compliance audits at any time without notice. Upon
reasonable request, GIVENCHY SA suppliers and contractors shall supply the necessary information and
grant access representatives to verify compliance with the requirements of this Code. Suppliers and
contractors shall further keep proper records to prove compliance with this Code and provide access to
complete, original, and accurate files to GIVENCHY SA ?s representatives.

Upon reasonable request, suppliers and contractors must improve and correct any deficiency
discovered during any such audits.

GIVENCHY SA shall use its reasonable endeavours to ensure that all its supplier and contractor template
contracts contain clauses requiring said suppliers and contractors to adopt similar anti-modern slavery
standards and practices.

Training and Awareness

GIVENCHY SA is planning to conduct training for its employees to ensure legal and human compliance
across GIVENCHY. The training purpose would be to reduce business risk of non-compliance through
efficient processes and reliable data and reporting. All documentation, policies and updates are available
to all employees.

GIVENCHY aim is to eliminate any risk of Modern Slavery in its business operations and in its supply
chains.

This statement is made pursuant to Section 54(1) of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and constitutes 
Slavery and human trafficking statement for the financial year ending 31 December 2016. It has been duly
approved and signed by its CEO and director:

Philippe FORTUNATO ae 

Director and Chief Executive officer
GIVENCHY SA
Date: June 29" 2017

 

3, avenue George - 75008 Paris - TelSoci?t? anonyme au capital de 3 000 000 - Siret 552 051 229 00011 - RCS Paris 552 051 229 - APE 1413 Z- TVAFR 46 55 20 51 229
