GBG International Holding Company Limited
Slavery Human Trafficking Statement

 

FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2016

The United Kingdom Modern Slavery Act of 2015 requires businesses to disclose their efforts to address the
issues of slavery and human trafficking in their supply chains. The disclosures are intended to increase the
amount of information available to consumers about the efforts manufacturers and retailers have undertaken
to eliminate the risk of modern day slavery, forced labor, human trafficking and similar human rights violations
(?slavery and human trafficking?) from their supply chain. This additional disclosure is intended to provide
consumers with the ability to make better, more informed choices about the products and services they buy,

and the companies they choose to support.

GBG International Holding Company Limited or ?the Company?) is committed to maintaining and
improving systems and processes to avoid complicity in human rights violations in our own operations, in our
supply chain, and in our products. Throughout this disclosure, we use the terms slave and trafficked labor to
encompass the many forms of involuntary employment. As an employer and a provider of goods and services,
we acknowledge that we have a role to play in eradicating modern forms of slavery as described in the Unit-
ed Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. We are committed to working with partners to

understand and enhance the role we can play in this.

COMPANY OVERVIEW

GBG sells branded products under the primary categories of men?s, women?s and children?s apparel, footwear
and accessories across a number of geographies and distribution channels. We are a market leader in the
licensed brands business and have developed strong relationships with numerous licensors across all categories
of our expertise. We are a licensee of choice for well-known brands that have built a loyal following of both fash-
ion-conscious consumers and retailers who desire high-quality, well-designed products. In an environment of
rapidly changing consumer fashion trends as well as increasing access to brands via online and digital channels,
we benefit from a strong portfolio of widely-recognized brands that enable us to drive fashion trends, capture

value at every stage of the brand lifecycle and broaden our appeal among different groups of customers.

Together with other member companies of Global Brands Group, we employ more than 3,700 people directly,
with approximately 70% in the North America, and 15% each in Europe, the Middle East and Africa, and the Asia
Pacific region. As part of our recruitment practices, our Human Resources team carries out direct recruitment
wherever possible and ensures employees have the relevant right to work documentation and suitable contrac-
tual arrangements. Taking into consideration the offences of slavery, forced labor and human trafficking which
are covered by the regulations, we consider there to be a low risk of such offences in the direct employment for

our offices, stores or distribution centers.

This statement covers all subsidiaries which were wholly owned during the period ending March 31, 2016. For
acquisitions that were made during the reporting period, we are integrating those businesses into our risk

assessment and reporting processes for the next reporting period.
GLOBAL BRANDS GBG International Holding Company Limited
GROUP Slavery Human Trafficking Statement

-continued-

 

SUPPLY CHAIN RISK MANAGEMENT

Our operations partially rely on the performance of our supply chain partners. As such, GBG has put in place a
supply chain management system to monitor and review the supply chain process, such as factory compliance
audit and quality inspection. Management work collaboratively with our supply chain partners to deal with risks
and uncertainties caused by logistics related activities or within the supply chain process with the objective
of reducing vulnerability and ensuring continuity and compliance of the Company?s operations. With regard to
the possibility of slavery or trafficked labor existing in our supply chain, the breadth and interconnectedness of
the apparel, footwear and accessory supply chains make it challenging to effectively manage risk at all stag-
es. Respecting human rights in the supply chain is ultimately the responsibility of our suppliers. However, as a
customer we play an active role in educating our suppliers and communicating our expectations to our supply

chain partners.

RISK ASSESSMENT

The company internally assesses the risk of slavery and human trafficking with respect to the supply chain for
all of its products. To judge which of its sourcing countries presents the highest risk levels, the Company utilizes
several publicly available governmental and intergovernmental resources. The Company continuously assesses

its risk as these resources are updated and as new, credible resources become available.

AUDIT

The Company conducts audits of its direct suppliers to evaluate compliance with the Company?s Global Supplier
Principles, which include standards for slavery and human trafficking in the supply chain. We utilize unaffiliated
third party workplace compliance audit firms and our agent representatives to conduct both announced and
unannounced factory audits on our behalf. In addition, GBG is also a signatory to the global buyer principles
of the International Labor Organization Better Work program and relies upon independent Better Work
factory assessments in lieu of our own inspections in countries where Better Work operates. Current GBG sourc-
ing countries with active Better Work programs include Bangladesh, Cambodia, Haiti, Indonesia, Nicaragua and
Vietnam. The Company also supports ongoing supplier improvements through training and technical assistance,
Our verification process involves initial or annual assessments of our major suppliers, which includes questions
and procedures targeted at slavery and human trafficking risk. GBG uses this audit process to determine the risk
profile of suppliers for labor standards, safety, working conditions, human rights (including slavery and human

trafficking) and other factory sustainability issues.

Audits are used to identify compliance gaps where action must be taken to remediate the issue. Suppliers
identified as higher risk will undergo more frequent assessments, to ensure progress is being made to address
the issues. Audits may be scheduled in advance, or may be conducted with non-specific date ranges provided.
Audit findings or non-conformances are scored against an internal scorecard. When priority issues are identi-
fied, such as potential slavery or human trafficking violations, we demand immediate action by the supplier. If
such potentially serious issues were to come to our attention, we would engage experts in the subject matter,

as appropriate.
GBG International Holding Company Limited
Slavery Human Trafficking Statement
-continued-

 

When other serious but less urgent non-conformances are identified during the audit process, we will work with

the supplier to implement controls to address the issue through adoption of stronger policies and procedures.

SUPPLIER CERTIFICATION
The Company requires that all suppliers comply with applicable laws within their country of business regarding

slavery and human trafficking.

ACCOUNTABILITY STANDARDS AND PROCEDURES

GBG maintains strong internal accountability procedures, which are communicated through our Code of Con-
duct and Business Ethics and Global Supplier Princples. All Company employees and agents with production,
sourcing or quality control responsibilities, as well as internal buying offices and trading companies doing busi-
ness with the Company have on-line access to these documents. In the case of non-compliance, GBG examines
the specific situation and develops an appropriate strategy for resolution.

GBG associates who regularly visit suppliers are also asked to assess conditions informally while on location
and report back any concerns, and GBG Compliance and Production teams meet regularly to review supplier

performance on social compliance and discuss sourcing strategy.

TRAINING

The Company provides internal training to its managers and employees with direct responsibility for supply
chain management that specifically raises awareness of slavery and human trafficking and focuses on mitigating
the risks within our supply chain. The Company encourages its agents, vendors and suppliers to participate in
seminars and training programs on social compliance issues (including the issues of slavery and human traffick-

ing) to further raise awareness of the issues and mitigate the risks within the Company's supply chain.

This statement has been approved by our Board of Directors.

Dow P. Famulak

September 2016
