Modern Slavery Statement
1. INTRODUCTION
This statement is made pursuant to Section 54 of the Modern Slavery
Act 2015. Company officers are aware that slavery, servitude, forced
labour and human trafficking (Modern Slavery) is a global issue, and this
declaration sets out the steps that Johnstons of Elgin have taken, or will
take, to prevent any form of slavery and/or human trafficking within our
own business and/or within our global supply chain.

2. ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE
Founded in 1797, Johnstons of Elgin has been manufacturing the finest
woollen and cashmere cloth, clothing and accessories for over two
centuries. Johnstons’ products are manufactured at two mills, one in
Elgin and one in Hawick. We have Retail shops in London, St Andrews,
Hawick, Elgin and Nantucket and offices/showrooms in London,
New York, Dusseldorf, Paris and Tokyo. Our products are sold in the
world’s best boutiques and online through johnstonscashmere.com.
Johnstons of Elgin has a turnover in excess of £60m.

3. SUPPLY CHAINS
As the only vertical mill in Scotland transforming raw fibre into yarn and
finished products we retain full control of our manufacturing processes
in-house. We may sub-contract a very small amount of work when
production demand dictates this, but only to well-established business
partners. Our supply chain includes the purchase of packaging, goods
and raw materials. We directly employ more than 900 employees, and
external agency would only be used in an exceptional case where
“key skills” are required but are not readily available locally.

4. POLICIES AND CONTRACTUAL CONTROLS
a. Corporate Social Responsibility
Johnstons of Elgin are members of Sedex, a not-for-profit organisation
working with businesses to help them manage the ethical and responsible
practices of their global supply chains. Sedex focuses on four main areas:
labour standards, health & safety, environment and business integrity.

c. Recruitment and Selection Policy and Procedure
Employment is provided and no harsh or inhumane treatment is allowed.
All recruitment processes are fair, transparent and fully compliant with
all current legal requirements ensuring that employment is freely chosen,
the withholding of passports/ID’s is not permitted, there is no forced,
bonded or involuntary prison labour within the company, and, employees
are free to leave the company at any time if they wish to do so.
d. Working Time Regulations
Johnstons of Elgin are committed to ensuring that we remain compliant
with the Working Time Regulations (1998) by regularly monitoring
working time via our Time Management System. Excess Hours/
Overtime, when offered, is undertaken on a voluntary basis.
e. Internal and Customer Auditing
Our internal auditors, external auditors acting on behalf of our customers,
and ISO (International Organization for Standardization) auditors, regularly
review our working practices, and if any room for improvements and/or
non-conformances are identified, remedial action is instigated.

5. THE PURCHASING OF RAW MATERIALS
AND CONSUMABLES
a. Raw Materials
Johnstons of Elgin are aware of the importance of its raw material supply
chain and the sustainability of raw material suppliers. Our raw fibre is
purchased from a small number of partners that we have worked with for
many years, who in turn collect material on our behalf from thousands of
local herder and farmer families, utilising cashmere from over 1 million goats.
b. Consumables
We build long standing relationships with suppliers. Consumable supplier
information is reviewed by our Quality team before suppliers are added
to our Approved Supplier List.

6. STEPS TAKEN TO ENSURE THAT MODERN
SLAVERY AND HUMAN TRAFFICKING ARE
We also comply with Ethical Trading Initiative Base Code – a set of labour
NOT TAKING PLACE
standards based on International Labour Organization conventions used
to drive improvements in working conditions around the world which
includes the following:
• Employment is freely chosen;
• Freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining
is respected;
• Working conditions are safe and hygienic;
• Child labour shall not be used;
• Legislative wages are paid;
• Working hours are not excessive;
• No discrimination is practiced;
• Regular employment is provided; and
• No harsh or inhumane treatment is allowed.

b. Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption
In addition to our Bribery Act – Business Ethics/Code of Conduct, the
Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption section of the Responsible Business
Principles Standard communicates the commitment of Johnstons of Elgin
to compliance with the Bribery Act (2010).

Having received training alongside our partner customers we have
conducted a review of the risks in our supply chain with regards to
Modern Slavery & Human Trafficking. We are fortunate that so much
of our manufacturing is done internally and have therefore a relatively
high degree of oversight over the process. As a result, our first step has
been to review and update all of the policies and contractual controls
mentioned above to ensure that they are robust in protecting our own
employees. We have then considered our indirect employees, working in
ancillary roles and have been in contact with security, cleaning, gardening
contractors and sought assurances that processes are in place to manage
the risk in those businesses.
Our next steps are to work with partners in our supply chains for
materials to re-enforce the standards that we expect and to improve
traceability. We work with the Sustainable Fibre Alliance in Mongolia who
will, over time, be developing fully traceable sources of cashmere fibre
which we hope to be able to utilise.
Any concerns with regards to Modern Slavery within Johnstons of Elgin
or our global supply chain should be discussed with the appropriate
business account manager or Group HR Director at Johnstons of Elgin.
Simon Cotton, Chief Executive

