Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement
Introduction
This statement sets out PenCarrie's actions to understand all potential modern slavery risks
related to its business and to put in place steps aimed at ensuring that there is no slavery or
human trafficking in its own business and its supply chains. This statement relates to actions
and activities during the current financial year.
PenCarrie is absolutely committed to preventing slavery and human trafficking in its own
activities, and to ensuring that its supply chains are free from slavery and human trafficking.
Organisational structure and supply chains
PenCarrie is a leading B2B supplier to the garment decoration industry.
The organisation currently operates at the following location:
PenCarrie House
South View Estate
Willand
Devon
EX15 2QW

Supply chains
The PenCarrie supply chains include a number of brands who are responsible for the
sourcing of promotional and corporate clothing and bags for distribution to garment
decorators and other onsellers.
The organisation expects all those in the supply chain to comply with a zero-tolerance
approach to slavery and human trafficking. Suppliers are required to demonstrate that they
act ethically and within the law in their use of labour. Where suppliers are unable to
demonstrate this standard, the organisation will look to terminate the business relationship.
The Managing Director, Tony Lock and Director, Nicci Gratwicke, are ultimately responsible
for compliance in the company’s departments and for their supplier relationships.

Relevant Steps
The organisation operates the following policies and procedures to identify modern slavery
risks and prevent slavery and human trafficking in its operations:

August 2017

Page 1 of 3

•

Whistleblowing Policy: the organisation encourages all of its workers, customers and
other business partners to report any concerns related to the direct activities, or the
supply chains of PenCarrie. This includes any circumstances that may give rise to an
enhanced risk of slavery or human trafficking. The organisation's Whistleblowing
Policy is designed to make it easy for individuals to make disclosures, without fear of
retaliation.

•

Business Ethics: PenCarrie strives to maintain the highest standards of employee
conduct and ethical behaviour and requires its suppliers to do the same in managing
their supply chain.

•

Recruitment and use of agency staff: PenCarrie uses only specified, reputable
employment agencies to source labour and always verifies the practices of any new
agency it is using before accepting workers from that agency. PenCarrie ensures that
all potential employees have the legal right to work in the UK and that relevant
employment legislation is adhered to.

Due diligence
The organisation undertakes written enquiries when considering taking on new suppliers,
and regularly reviews its existing suppliers’ policies on Modern Slavery and other areas of
their operations, especially the procedures and certifications under which their
manufacturers operate.
Where possible, PenCarrie builds long standing relationships with suppliers and makes clear
its expectations of business behaviour.
The organisation has in place systems to encourage the reporting of concerns and the
protection of whistle blowers.
The organisation expects each supplier in the supply chain to, at least, adopt ‘one-up’ due
diligence on the next link in the chain. It is not practical for PenCarrie (and every other
participant in the chain) to have a direct relationship with all links in the supply chain.

Performance indicators
PenCarrie uses the following key performance indicators (KPIs) to measure how effective it
is to ensure that slavery and human trafficking is not taking place in any part of its business
or in its supply chains:
•
•

Use of the Whistleblowing Policy in relation to Modern Slavery and Human
Trafficking.
Reviews of the recruitment and payroll systems to ensure recruitment and
employment practices remain legally compliant.

August 2017

Page 2 of 3

•

Reviews with direct suppliers to understand the level of communication and
personal contact with the next link in the supply chain and the understanding of, and
compliance with, the organisation’s expectations.

Training
To ensure a high level of understanding of the risks of modern slavery and human trafficking
in the supply chains and within the business, PenCarrie provides training to relevant
members of staff.
All Directors have been briefed on the subject.
Board Approval
This statement has been approved by the organisation's Board of Directors, who will review
and update it annually.

Managing Director's signature:
Tony Lock
Date: 31 August 2017

August 2017

Page 3 of 3

