 BROOKS BROS

FOR THE COMPLETE TIMBER SERVICE

MODERN SLAVERY ACT

2016 statement

Our business

HARDWOODS, SOFTWOODS AND CLEARS
MACHINING AND FINISHING

STANDARD AND BESPOKE MOULDINGS
TIMBER FLOORING DECKING CLADDING
LAMINATING SHEET MATERIALS

Over the last 50 years, Brooks Bros (UK) has evolved from a timber importer on the river Thames
to one of the leading privately owned timber companies; trading, manufacturing and

distributing timber and timber products across the UK.

Operating from five flourishing depots, four of which have either primary or secondary processing

facilities, our annual combined turnover is now approximately ?60 million.

Destined primarily for the construction trade and end-user, products traded include hardwoods,

softwoods, flooring, decking, cladding and machined timber.

Brooks Bros
(UK) 

 

Danbury Nottingham Maldon
depot depot depot (HQ)

 

Our people

Skelmersdale
depot

The business employs around 300 staff, primarily recruiting staff directly, but from time-to-time

recruiters are used to hire temporary or permanent staff.

We are committed to conducting our business responsibly, in accordance with applicable UK laws

and regulations. We have established HR procedures to ensure:

employees are assessed for their right to work in the 
staff pay and benefits packages comply with relevant UK legislation;

work contracts clearly stipulate key employment terms, including salary, working hours, holiday

entitlement, notice period, overtime rate (where applicable) and that these comply with the law;

diversity is embraced, providing fair and equitable treatment of individuals;

staff receive appropriate on-the-job training;

Brooks Bros (UK) Limited

Head Office: Blackwater Place - The Causeway Maldon Essex CM9 4GG
Telephone: 01621 877400 Fax: 01621 859054 Email: sales@brookstimber.co.uk
Website: 

Directors: A Sherriff, Sherriff, Fleming, Greig, Hall, McCarthy.

Registered Office: Blackwater Place, The Causeway, Maldon, Essex 4GG Registered in England Number 1644146
Also at Danbury, Nottingham, Sewstem and Skelmersdale All goods are sold as per Brooks Bros Terms of Trading Ref: MCF 1/6/10. A copy of which is available upon request.

Ly) icc a

PEFC percsi6-37-024



ea 

Member of the
Timber Trade Federation

 

The ma
responsible forestry

wentecog CO13816

Ww
Responsible ov ne

ff Purchaser
HARDWOODS, SOFTWOODS AND CLEARS

MACHINING AND FINISHING

STANDARD AND BESPOKE MOULDINGS

TIMBER FLOORING DECKING CLADDING

FOR THE COMPLETE TIMBER SERVICE LAMINATING SHEET MATERIALS

that staff receive appropriate health and safety training and are provided with a safe working
environment in order to carry out their jobs safely;

there is zero tolerance for harassment, and that grievances are handled swiftly and fairly;

there is zero tolerance towards bribery and corruption.

Our Whistleblowing Policy provides staff with a clear path to confidentially report any criminal
behaviour or misconduct. Any concerns raised are investigated thoroughly and handled
confidentially.

We regularly review our policies and procedures to ensure they are current and effective.
Progress (2016):

Building in-house knowledge on the Modern Slavery Act within Compliance and HR, including
online training

Modern Slavery Act Policy included in the staff handbook

Identification of all companies for ancillary services who will be contacted regarding our new
Modern Day Slavery Act policy e.g. recruitment agencies, cleaning services, logistics providers
etc.

Next steps (2017-2020):

Build specialist in-house expertise on modern day slavery within the Compliance and HR
department.

Train all staff on the Modern Slavery Act to understand what constitutes modern day slavery and
human trafficking and how to report suspected cases.

Communicate the policy to those companies whose provide ancillary services to detect and
prevent slavery and human trafficking.

Our supply chains

Brooks Bros (UK) sources timber products from around the world and also sources locally in UK.
Key countries from which we directly source include Canada, USA, France, New Zealand, Sweden and
Finland as well as Cameroon, Republic of Congo, Ivory Coast, Indonesia, China and Malaysia.

In some cases the supply chain can be short and simple; for example, purchasing logs directly from
UK forest managers. In other cases, we may purchase a finished products where the supply chain
consists of several layers across a number of countries and may include numerous subcontractors
and labour agencies, each with different standards.

Brooks Bros (UK) Limited a 
Head Office: Blackwater Place - The Causeway Maldon Essex CM9 4GG Promoting yen

i fe
Telephone: 01621 877400 Fax: 01621 859054 Email: sales@brookstimber.co.uk Nee management recvenrars
Website: PEFC  rercie-s7-024 
Directors: A Sherriff, Sherriff, Fleming, Greig, Hall, McCarthy. oy Vw Af Responsible vw
Registered Office: Blackwater Place, The Causeway, Maldon, Essex CM9 4GG Registered in England Number 1644146 i Purchaser Tee 
Alco at Danbury, Nottingham, Sewstem and Skelmersdale - All goods are sold as per Brooks Bros Terms of Trading Ref: MCF 1/6/10. A copy of which is available upon request. bag! eben reas tesecien Ui eer
HARDWOODS, SOFTWOODS AND CLEARS

MACHINING AND FINISHING

STANDARD AND BESPOKE MOULDINGS

TIMBER FLOORING DECKING CLADDING

FOR THE COMPLETE TIMBER SERVICE LAMINATING SHEET MATERIALS

Brooks Bros (UK) operates a Due Diligence System to ensure the timber products that we import
has been harvested, traded and exported legally in the country of harvest, in line with the EU Timber
Regulation. This provides a framework to risk assess and mitigate which can be adapted to include
slavery and human trafficking elements.

Our due diligence system is underpinned by our Responsible Purchasing Policy, which lays out our
commitment to avoiding forced labour, child labour and discrimination. This can be updated to
explicitly define Modern Day Slavery.

Progress (2016)

Aninitial review of existing company procedures to assess what further mechanisms are
required

Assessing how forest certification requirements address modern slavery and how the schemes
are adapting to address gaps

Building understanding of risks in timber supply chains

Next steps (2017-2020)

 

Update our Responsible Purchasing Policy, Due Diligence System and associated tools to
explicitly include slavery and human trafficking.

Communicate policy to new and existing key suppliers and risk assess supply chains where we
have leverage

Promote greater transparency of other suppliers and raise awareness of policy and risks.

Where risk is identified, work with our suppliers to stamp out slavery and cease engaging with
suppliers who are not committed to complying with the policy; this approach is strongly
advocated by slavery abolition experts.

The Board of Directors reviews this statement annually.

Signed de dry Date: 30/s 

Mark Fleming
Managing Director, on behalf of the Board of Directors

Brooks Bros (UK) Limited 

Head Office: Blackwater Place The Causeway Maldon Essex CM9 4GG Promoting Sete
Telephone: 01621 877400 Fax: 01621 859054 Email: sales@brookstimber.co.uk haar management FSC. (2speneble frosty
Website: PEFC  percie-s7-024 sori ESCO 8I8
Directors: GA Sherriff, Sherriff, MC Fleming, Greig, Hall, McCarthy. y) wi Responsible ve 
Registered Office: Blackwater Place, The Causeway, Maldon, Essex 4GG Registered in England Number 1644146 ?earn we Purchaser boleh apa

Also at Danbury, Nottingham, Sewstem and Skelmersdale All goods are sold as per Brooks Bros Terms of Trading Ref: MCF 1/6/10. A copy of which is available upon request. Timber Trade Federation tere oe er nee
