 SOFTWOCHIS AND OLEARS.

BrooKs Bros ae

FOR THE COMPLETE TIMBER SERVICE LAMINATIANG SHEET MAMERLALS

MODERN SLAVERY ACT

#017 statement

Our business

Over the last 50 years, Brooks Bros (UK) has evolved from a timber importer on the river Thames
to one of the UK's leading privately owned timber companies; trading, manufacturing and
distributing timber and timber products across the UK.

Operating from five flourishing depots, four of which have either primary or secondary processing
facilities, our annual combined turnover is now approximately ?60 million.

Destined primarily for the construction trade and end-user, products traded include hardwoods,
softwoods, flooring, decking, cladding and machined timber.

Brooks Bros

(UK) 

Our people

 

 

Skelmersdale

elejaLagt

    

The business employs around 300 staff, primarily recruiting staff directly, but from time-to-time
recruiters are used to hire temporary or permanent staff.

We ane committed to conducting our business responsibly, in accordance with applicable UK laws
and regulations. We have established HR procedures to ensure:

employees are assessed for their right to work in the 

staff pay and benefits packages comply with relevant UK legislation;

work contracts clearly stipulate key employment terms, including salary, working hours, holiday
entitlement, notice period, overtime rate (where applicable) and that these comply with the law;

diversity is embraced, providing fair and equitable treatment of individuals;

staff receive appropriate on-the-job training;

Brooks Bros (UK) Linwted

Head Office: Blochwater Place The Causevery Maldon Esse 4GG 4) roots FEN ees
Tolophone: OG) BI TE00 Fac O12) - Erik: ealesirockstiminerco.uk ?0 ea
Website: wea. beoocstinber.com PEFC  eiecre gree orem Ff tale

Crachore: CA Shaernil, bb Shave Pleewangs i Gene, 4 tall, OF MiCacey ?ut 
(Ceca De ates Plier The Fi rape Mikio, Peete CRF lon rejlerel Muarrbeie beatae CH np ron apne 

Cee cert beefs Se red Geer ee ee epee HARCWAIGO0S, SOFTWOODS AMO OLEARS

BROOKS Bros pee

FOR FHE COMPLETE TIMBER SERVICE LAMIPLATINGG - SHEET MATERIALS

that staff receive appropriate health and safety training and are provided with a safe working
environment in order to carry out their jobs safely;

there is zero tolerance for harassment, and that grievances are handled swiftly and fairly;

there is rero tolerance towards bribery and corruption.

Our Whistleblowing Policy provides staff with a clear path to confidentially report any criminal
behaviour or misconduct. Any concerns raised are investigated thoroughly and handled

confidentially.

We regularly review our policies and procedures to ensure they are current and effective.

Progress (2016):

Building in-house knowledge on the Modern Slavery Act within Compliance and HR, including
online training

Modern Slavery Act Policy included in the staff handbook

Identification of all companies for ancillary services who will be contacted regarding our new
Modern Day Slavery Act policy e.g. recruitment agencies, cleaning services, logistics providers.
ete,

Progress (2017):

Building in-house knowledge and auditing skills on detecting modern slavery through
participation of Investigative interviewing skills in the workplace, delivered by Gangmasters and
Labour Abuse Authority (GLAA).

xt st T- 

Build specialist in-house expertise on modern day slavery within the Compliance and HR
department.

Train all staff on the Modern Slavery Act to understand what constitutes modern day slavery and
human trafficking and how to report suspected cases.

Communicate the policy to those companies whose provide ancillary services to detect and
prevent slavery and human trafficking.

Brooks Bros (UK) Limited 

Head Cfice: Blackwater Place - The Causeway Maldon Essex CM9 4GG Ree ON ceoae


rin iriincnety ar ra00 Fass 06621 BSP064 Ennait uke Fae poss gaan

heckuarasCalasecaicduade Pisa We cocnenen badd Reaacael WO  Risppatrel a Eewglaendl Nig: ?l id cH apron ee

aes oan Tasca ry, Reaper nge ars, tases eal [emer AAN perme armen ode Ble emPima SOFTWIOGDS AND CLEARS

BROOKS Bros ress re

FOR THE COMPLETE TIMMER SERVICE LAMINATING SHEET MATERIALS

Our supply chains

Brooks Bros (UK) sources timber products fram around the world and also sources locally in UK.
Key countries from which we directly source include Canada, USA, France, New Zealand, Sweden and
Finland as well as Cameroon, Republic of Congo, lvory Coast, Indonesia, China and Malaysia.

In some cases the supply chain can be short and simple; for example, purchasing logs directly from
UK forest managers. In other cases, we may purchase finished products where the supply chain
consists of several layers across a number of countries and may include numerous subcontractors
and labour agencies, each with different standards.

Brooks Bros (UK) operates a Due Diligence System to ensure the timber products that we import
has been harvested, traded and exported legally in the country of harvest, in line with the EU Timber
Regulation, This provides a framework to risk assess and mitigate which can be adapted to include
slavery and human trafficking elements.

Our due diligence system is underpinned by our Responsible Purchasing Policy, which lays out our
commitment to avoiding forced labour, child labour and discrimination. This can be updated to
explicithy to define Modern Day Slavery.

Proegr

Aninitial review of existing company procedures to assess what further mechanisms are
required

Assessing how forest certification requirements address modern slavery and how the schemes
are adapting to address gaps

Building understanding of risks in timber supply chains

Fr 7

Building in-house knowledge and auditing skills on detecting modern slavery through
participation of Investigative interviewing skills in the workplace, delivered by Gangmasters and
Labour Abuse Authority (GLAA), The techniques learned can be applied during supplier audits.

Maintaining a robust due diligence system for timber imported from outside of the EU, in line
with the EU Timber Regulation, which covers workers employment and workers conditions.

The proportion of timber products that has been third-party certified and legally verified by a
leading forest certification scheme has increased by 9.56% and now represents 78.6% of all

products purchased.
Brooks Bros (UK) Limited 
Head Office: Blackwater Place The Causeway Maiclon Eason 406 
VWhebaibec weavw. beoodortinibercorn PEFC rivcneartie ee FF
Ragetered Ofc: Dicer Pca, The Caney AAdGEr,Emen CMP AGC ?Reding Humor 1A De 6b we 

Sn aot Chur sary Parga ee nt em Athy SOF TWOODS AND CLBARS

BROOKS Bros pact

TRABER FLOGRING - DECEING CLADDING
FOR THE COMPLETE TIMGER SERVICE LAMINATING - SHEET MATERIALS

Next steps (2017-2020)

Update our Responsible Purchasing Policy, Due Diligence System and associated tools to
explicitly include slavery and human trafficking.

Communicate policy to new and existing key suppliers and risk assess supply chains where we
have leverage

Promote greater transparency of other suppliers and raise awareness of policy and risks.

Where risk is identified, work with our suppliers to stamp out slavery and cease engaging with
suppliers who are not committed to complying with the policy; this approach is strongly
advocated by slavery abolition experts.

The Board of Directors reviews this statement annually.

Signed by: A 4 Jay, pate: 28/1/18

Mark Fleming
Managing Director, on behalf of the Board of Directors

Brooks Bros (UK) Limited

Heed Offic: BlachoaterPlce - The Causeway Makion Essox 4GG emis fall es
lophone: 01421 877400 - Fax: 01421 859054 Email salesiibrookstimber.co.uk oe pac ceils
Website: ww brooketimbercom hae

a
Regard if: Bans Pe, Eas Cary Maio Ene CA OS Phe Efe Mavbe Me CGH wo

mStar ery Narre eed ike ede 