Transparency in Supply Chains &
Modern Slavery Statement (FY 2016)

Transparenc y In the Suppl y Chain and Mo dern Slaver y Statement 2016

Category Sub-heading
Introduction

Stella McCartney is committed to promoting good labour
standards and protecting human rights in all parts of its
business. Though this is our first public disclosure under the
UK Modern Slavery Act 2015, protecting the rights
and well-being of people in our supply chain has always
been a priority.
We are aware that due to globalisation, increasing levels
of migration and the complexity of supply chains, forced
labour and human trafficking pose a risk for any business.
We take the issue of modern slavery extremely seriously and
are determined to do our part in making sure that modern
slavery is eradicated.
This statement is released in compliance with the section
54 of the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015 and the California
Transparency in Supply Chains Act of 2010 (SB 657). It
constitutes our statement for financial year January December 2016, but includes action taken before 2016
and up to June 2017.

Stella Mc C ar tney

2

Transparenc y In the Suppl y Chain and Mo dern Slaver y Statement 2016

Category
Our
Company
Sub-heading
And Our Products

Stella McCartney is a luxury lifestyle brand that was launched
under the designer’s name in a 50/50 partnership with Kering
in 2001. A lifelong vegetarian, Stella McCartney does not use

47

any leather, skins, feathers or fur in her designs, collaborations,
or licensed products.

Stores and
Shop-in-Shops
Worldwide

The brand is committed to ethical values, and believes the
company is responsible for the resources it uses and the
impact it has on the environment.
Stella McCartney offers women’s ready-to-wear, menswear and
accessories as well as kidswear.

100

Countries
Shipped To

Modern Slavery Definition
Modern slavery is a term used to encompass human trafficking,
slavery, servitude, forced and compulsory labour, bonded
labour and some forms of child labour. Victims are coerced,
deceived, threatened or abused into providing work or services

550

Permanent
Employees

850

Wholesale
Accounts

without any real possibility to refuse or remove themselves
from their situation. In addition to the above, human trafficking
can also include an act of transportation, transfer, harbouring
or receipt of persons (cross border or internal). Modern slavery
is a crime and a grave violation of fundamental human rights.

Stella Mc C ar tney

3

Transparenc y In the Suppl y Chain and Mo dern Slaver y Statement 2016

Category
Our
Supply
Sub-heading
Chain

Country

Product
Suppliers In
Tiers 1 & 2

Italy

76%

China

11%

India

04%

Hungary

03%

Spain

02%

Our supply chain can be divided into two areas:

developed by Kering to trace the natural materials we use (such
1.

Production of items we sell such as clothing, shoes or

as cotton, wool and viscose) back to their country of origin.

bags – “Product Supply Chain” / “Product Suppliers”

Our key sourcing countries for natural materials are India,

2. Not-for-resale items such as furniture or packaging and
contractors such as transport, cleaning or security –

Portugal

01%

We use the Environmental Profit & Loss (EP&L) report

China, Turkey, Egypt and the USA for cotton, New Zealand for
wool and Sweden for viscose.

“Procurement Supply Chain” / “Procurement Suppliers”
Procurement Supply Chain
Product Supply Chain

In addition to the Product Supply Chain, Stella McCartney

Our materials are sourced and our products manufactured

operations are supported by a network of Procurement

through a carefully selected network of suppliers located

Suppliers and contractors who help us with the day-to-day

around the world, many of which have worked with us since

running of our stores and offices. These include a range of

the brand was founded.

services such as transport, packaging, construction,
furniture, cleaning, catering and security.

Italy is by far our biggest sourcing country with 76% of all our
Table 1: Distribution of Product

Tier 1 and 2 Product Suppliers (see Table 2 on page 9 for more

Suppliers (as of December 2016)

information on Tiers and Product Supply Chain visibility).

The remaining 3% of production is split

Although significantly smaller, other key sourcing countries

between UK, Slovenia, Bulgaria (Tier 1)

include Hungary, Spain, Portugal, China and India.

and France, Germany, Switzerland, Japan
and Turkey (Tier 2).

In 2016, we worked with 92 Tier 1 and 300 Tier 2 Product
Suppliers globally. Many of these are small manufacturers and
artisans who specialise in particular techniques and
processes. For instance, our bag manufacturers are experts
at working with our non-leather bag materials.

Stella Mc C ar tney

Licence & Franchise Partners
The sourcing and manufacturing of ready-to-wear clothing,
accessories, shoes and kids collections are managed by Stella
McCartney.
The adidas by Stella McCartney range, together with lingerie,
swimwear, eyewear and fragrance product categories are
licensed. As of December 2016, we also had 17 franchise stores.

4

Transparenc y In the Suppl y Chain and Mo dern Slaver y Statement 2016

The Flow
Category
Sub-heading
of Key Raw Materials
& Key Manufacturing Locations

Sweden
Viscose

Hungary
T1 + T2 2.7%

Spain
T1 + T2 2%

USA
Cotton

China
T1 + T2 13%
Portugal
T1 + T2 1.2%
Egypt

Turkey

India
T1 + T2 4.5%

Key:
T1 - Tier 1
T2 - Tier 2

Italy
T1 + T2 74%
Italy
T1 + T2 74%

New Zealand
Wool
Stella Mc C ar tney

5

Transparenc y In the Suppl y Chain and Mo dern Slaver y Statement 2016

Category Policies
Relevant
Sub-heading

Kering’s Code of Ethics (The “Code”) sets out policies and

In addition, Stella McCartney has developed two policies and a

expectations for all stakeholders including Kering employees,

procedure specifically in regards to modern slavery. The Stella

the Kering brands and suppliers. Employees of all Kering

McCartney Modern Slavery Policy for Partners and the Stella

brands receive a copy of the Code and are requested to

McCartney Modern Slavery Policy for Internal Staff were

undertake an annual online refresher training course on the

developed in consultation with four external partners

Code.

specialising in human rights and include guidance on modern
slavery indicators, the most common risk areas and suggested

The Code, available on Kering’s website, includes the Group

due diligence.

Supplier’s Charter (page 10), which explicitly prohibits all
forms of slavery including, but not limited to, use of child

The Stella McCartney Modern Slavery Remediation Procedure

labour, forced or compulsory labour or debt bondage. Product

sets out the steps to be taken if a case of modern slavery is

Suppliers are expected to comply with the Suppliers’ Charter,

identified. For example, it states that we will act with the

the importance of the Supplier’s Charter being reinforced

well-being of the individuals at risk in mind and that we will

during supplier training, visits and assessments.

support our partners in developing and implementing a
remediation plan.

Kering policies provide a group-wide framework and minimum
requirements which Stella McCartney has developed further.
We are a member of the Ethical Trade Initiative (ETI) and we
have adopted the ETI Base Code. The ETI Base Code is an
internationally recognised code of labour practice founded
on the conventions of the International Labour Organisation
(ILO) and it prohibits the use of forced, bonded, or involuntary
prison labour. It specifies, for instance, that workers shall not
be required to “lodge” deposits or identity papers with their
employer, a practice that constitutes modern slavery.

Stella Mc C ar tney

6

Transparenc y In the Suppl y Chain and Mo dern Slaver y Statement 2016

CategorySlavery
Modern
Sub-heading
Due Diligence

Governance
At Stella McCartney, the responsibility to meet the ethical
trade requirements sits with our Chief Operating Officer (COO)
and the board of directors. The Head of Sustainability and
Ethical Trade, who is supported by an Ethical Trade Manager,
reports directly to our COO. Ethical trade and human rights
related issues are regularly discussed with our COO. At Kering,
the Supply Chain Security Director is responsible for
communicating any serious breaches of the Suppliers’ Charter
to the Stella McCartney production directors and the
sustainability and ethical trade team.

Stakeholder Engagement
Our experience has taught us that a collective approach to
addressing the complex issues around human rights is the
most effective. We work closely with our business partners,
industry peers, external human rights experts and various
global and local stakeholders in order to strengthen our
ability to ensure that human rights are respected through
our operations and supply chain.
In regards to modern slavery specifically, we work with two
partners with expertise in this area. We engaged the human
rights consultancy Ergon Associates, who supported
us with a modern slavery risk assessment of both our supply
chains and business operations. We have also sought advice
from the human rights organisation Anti-Slavery International
on strengthening our modern slavery due diligence.

Stella Mc C ar tney

7

Transparenc y In the Suppl y Chain and Mo dern Slaver y Statement 2016

CategorySlavery
Modern
Sub-heading
Due Diligence

Supply Chain Mapping
Mapping and understanding our supply chains beyond direct
relationships is one of our key priorities. We recognise that our
most salient risks regarding modern slavery and human
trafficking occur in the lower tiers of our supply chains.
Because of this, we have placed significant focus on improving
supply chain transparency and product traceability. Along with
Kering, we have a target to achieve farm, mine and forest level
traceability of all materials by 2025.
We have mapped and continue to monitor all Tier 1 and many
Tier 2 Product Suppliers. In 2016, we mapped and started

In partnership with Ergon Associates, we conducted a
modern slavery risk assessment across all of our business
activities. The assessment focused on five areas: forced
labour, child labour, low pay, excessive working hours and
modern slavery and included our own operations, as well as
our Product Supply Chain, Procurement Supply Chain and
franchise partners.
Based on the results, one of our priorities is to investigate and
achieve greater visibility of Tiers 3 and 4 of our Product Supply
Chain, particularly for cotton (see page 11 for more details on
the identified risks and steps taken).

monitoring key Procurement Suppliers.
Supplier Audits
Human Rights And Modern Slavery Risk Assessment
We know that the more aware we are of supply chain risks, the
more we can do to prepare for and/or prevent issues that may
arise. We regularly assess environmental and human rights
risks within our Product Supply Chain to the best of our ability,
taking into account outside factors such as local politics and
climate change.

Although we do not rely on ethical audits alone, we find them
to be a useful tool in gaining insight and understanding the
first layer of information about our Product Suppliers. We
conducts different types of audits (including unannounced
audits) depending on the circumstances, which help us to
understand how our Product Suppliers work, identify potential
risk areas and support our Product Suppliers in meeting
required standards. Audits are conducted either by the Kering

Our key Procurement Suppliers have completed a self-

audit team or carefully selected specialist third-party auditors.

assessment of their hiring practices, as the first step towards

Improvement Projects

understanding the risk of modern slavery in this part of
our business.

Stella Mc C ar tney

8

Transparenc y In the Suppl y Chain and Mo dern Slaver y Statement 2016

Category Chain
Supply
Sub-heading
Mapping: Table 2

Visibility

Monitoring

Direct suppliers and their
subcontractors carrying out
sewing, cutting, printing,
embroidery, packing or any
other type of final assembly
or finishing operations.

We have a complete map of all
manufacturing sites.

Our policy requires all sites to
be assessed and approved before
production can begin and to be
monitored on a regular basis.

Material manufacturing

Suppliers of fabrics, trims,
components and other materials
that go into final manufacturing
and assembly of our products.

We have a complete map of fabric,
trim and component suppliers for
all our mens and womens lines.

Key sites are assessed and
approved before production.

All key fabric and trim suppliers
for kidswear are mapped.

Raw material processing

Cotton ginners and spinners, pulp
mills, metal smelting etc.

Raw material production

Farms (cotton, wool), mines
(metals), forests (viscose, wood
and paper).

Tier 3
Tier 4

Example

Final product manufacturing		
and assembly

Tier 2

Tier 1

Definition

We have a map of the sites used
by our nominated raw material
suppliers.

Some sites, such as those working
with our nominated raw material
suppliers have been visited and
assessed. As we achieve more
traceability, we will include
more of these suppliers in our
monitoring program.

We have a country-level map of our
natural raw materials. For some
key raw materials we have farm
level traceability (such as wool,
viscose, and some cotton farms).

All our nominated suppliers have
been visited and assessed. As
we achieve more raw material
traceability, we will include
more of these suppliers in our
monitoring program.

Table 2: Product supply chain tiers,
visibility and monitoring

Stella Mc C ar tney

9

Transparenc y In the Suppl y Chain and Mo dern Slaver y Statement 2016

CategorySlavery
Modern
Sub-heading
Due Diligence

In cases where our Product Suppliers find it difficult to

Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, carried out

complete the remediation work identified through audits, we

by the specialist human rights organisation SHIFT.

may enroll them in supplier improvement projects. These types
of projects help suppliers to understand and address the root

Key members of Stella McCartney’s sourcing staff have

causes of particular issues and to develop systems that

participated in modern slavery training carried out by ethical

prevent such issues from occurring again.

trade organisations and the Stella McCartney ethical trade
team. Additionally, in 2016 and 2017, Stella McCartney
production and procurement teams in charge of purchasing

Supplier Training
Kering conducts an annual supplier sustainability summit for
all Tier 1 and Tier 2 Product Suppliers working with Kering and
Stella McCartney. This provides training on Kering policies and
current projects, as well as labour standards and social
compliance.
In addition, we conduct training on the Stella McCartney
ethical trade programme, policies and common ethical trade
challenges facing Product Suppliers. So far, we have conducted

have received guidance on the Modern Slavery Act and training
on the risks of modern slavery in their Product Supply Chains.
Senior management, including the CEO and the COO, continue
to receive regular updates about the company’s due diligence
on modern slavery.

Grievance Mechanisms
Our Stella McCartney people have a responsibility to raise issues

this type of training in Hungary, Italy and China. In 2016, we

that may constitute a breach of the Kering Code, including any

started training our Product Suppliers specifically on the

instance or suspicion of forced labour or modern slavery.

Modern Slavery Act 2015 and modern slavery risks in their

Employees are informed about this responsibility at the start of

region. The training was delivered in person by our ethical

their employment and can report any concerns or issues

trade team and local ethical trade partners.

through Kering Ethics Committees. Kering also operates an
anonymous grievance hotline for employees, available in eleven
languages worldwide. Empoyees may raise concerns directly

Staff Training
In 2015, Stella McCartney’s ethical trade staff participated in

with our sustainability and ethical trade team or to their
manager.

human rights due diligence training on the United Nations

Stella Mc C ar tney

10

Transparenc y In the Suppl y Chain and Mo dern Slaver y Statement 2016

Category Sub-heading
Identified
Risks And Steps Taken
Through our ethical trade programme and modern slavery risk assessment,
we have identified four key areas:

COTTON SUPPLY CHAINS

We are aware that there is a
risk of modern slavery in global
cotton supply chains, especially

CHILD LABOUR AND
YOUNG WORKERS

in the lower supplier tiers.
Cotton is a seasonal crop, which
means temporary workers are

Some suppliers may lack
effective age-verification

?

MIGRANT AND
REFUGEE WORKERS

systems or may subcontract HR
functions to a third party.
While we have not found any

Workers who are refugees,
internal migrants or economic
migrants can often have fewer
rights in the workplace and less
legal protection.
All SMC sourcing countries
represent a risk in this regard.
STEPS TAKEN
Our auditors are trained to focus
on vulnerable groups during
SMC audits, such as migrant and
refugee workers.
Additionally, we conducted a
number of off-site audits in 2016
to understand the vulnerability
of migrant workers and the
hiring practices in communities
where our Product Suppliers
operate. This helps us verify the
accuracy of information obtained
through announced assessments

cases of child labour in our
supply chains, the potential
risk was identified through
the assessment conducted by
Ergon Associates. Tiers 1 and
2 in China and India pose the
highest risk of child labour
in our supply chain. The most
significant risk for Tiers 3 and
4 was identified as India, China,
Turkey and Egypt.
STEPS TAKEN
We work with specialist ethical
trade partners in China and
India who help us to assess,
monitor and train Product
Suppliers on age verification
systems and adequate working
conditions for apprentices or
young workers. This helps us
continue to ensure that no child
labour is used.

often used for picking and other

We are aware of risks of
cotton from Uzbekistan, Syria
and Turkmenistan (countries

Temporary workers may be hired

where forced labour has been

in an informal way, without

documented) being sold into China

contracts or paid through an

and Turkey where it is mixed with

intermediary. This leaves them

cotton from other countries.

more exposed to exploitation
than directly employed and

In India, the Sumangali scheme

permanent workers.

has received a lot of attention
in recent years because of

Using recruitment agencies or

the risk of young girls being

other intermediaries may leave

recruited for bonded labour in

workers vulnerable to unethical

the cotton mills. Other relevant

recruitment practices.

risk countries for us include
Turkey, China, Egypt and Africa.

Within our supply chain, China,

Turkey in particular poses a risk

India and Italy have been

due to the Syrian refugee crisis.

identified as high risk.

STEPS TAKEN

STEPS TAKEN

We require our Product Suppliers

Monitoring through off-site

to disclose the country of

audits.

origin of all their cotton (i.e.
where the farming of the cotton

We provide training to our

happens) and we do not permit

Product Suppliers on the risks

the use of any cotton from

linked to using temporary

Uzbekistan, Syrian or Turkmenistan

labour. For example, in 2016 we

for SMC products or materials.

piloted an improvement project
with a key Product Supplier in

and enables us to better advise

Stella Mc C ar tney

TEMPORARY WORKERS
AND THE USE OF
RECRUITMENT AGENCIES

processing stages.

our Product Suppliers on

We support the Cottonforlife

China to improve the factory’s

corrective actions.

Initiative in Egypt which

hiring practices. This included

promotes the growth of

improvement of general human

sustainable cotton and supports

resource practices, temporary

local farmers, especially women

worker recruitment and

and children.

subcontractor management.
11

Transparenc y In the Suppl y Chain and Mo dern Slaver y Statement 2016

Looking
CategoryAhead
Sub-heading

Modern slavery due diligence is part of our ethical trade

We have identified five priorities in regards to modern slavery:

programme, which we review, develop and strengthen on a
regular basis.
Develop a robust system for supply chain mapping. As a
priority, we will work to improve the visibility of Tier 3

1
The effectiveness of our approach

T3 & T4

and 4 in our cotton Product Supply Chain with a focus on
identifying opportunities for reducing human rights-related
risks (including modern slavery) in these tiers.

As part of our existing ethical trade programme, we intend to
track and report on:

Strengthen our supplier assessment methodology to ensure
that our audits can effectively identify indicators of

•

Number of internal staff who have received training on

2

Product Supply Chain. We will seek feedback from relevant

modern slavery
•

modern slavery, especially in the lower tiers of the
stakeholders on how to do this.

Number of suppliers who have received training on
modern slavery

•

Number of suppliers participating in improvement projects

•

Extent to which our Product Supply Chain is mapped /
fully traceable

•

We recognise the need to increase support of workers’

3

voices in our supply chain and are looking into ways to
develop this.

Investigation and remediation should any instances of
modern slavery be identified
Continue to raise awareness of what modern slavery can

As we expand our work on modern slavery due diligence, we
plan to develop a more robust evaluation framework including

look like through scaling up training for SMC staff and

4

suppliers. We aim to help our suppliers build capacity to
identify, remediate and prevent modern slavery in their

qualitative indicators.

supply chains.

Approval of this statement
This statement was approved by the Stella McCartney Ltd

5

Extend monitoring across the Procurement Supply Chain in
regards to modern slavery risks.

Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by Helen Newman.

Stella Mc C ar tney

12

