Modern Slavery Statement (FY 2017)

Stella McCartney — Modern Slavery Statement 2017

Introduction

Stella McCartney is committed to promoting good labour
standards and protecting human rights in all parts of its
business. This is our second public disclosure under the UK
Modern Slavery Act 2015, but protecting the rights and wellbeing of people in our supply chain has always been a
priority.
We are aware that due to globalisation, increasing levels of
migration and the complexity of supply chains, forced labour
and human trafficking pose a risk for any business. We take
the issue of modern slavery seriously and are determined
to do our part in making sure that modern slavery is
eradicated.
This statement is released in compliance with section 54
of the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015 and the California
Transparency in Supply Chains Act of 2010 (SB 657). It
constitutes our statement for the financial year January December 2017, but includes action taken before 2017 and
up to June 2018. Our first Statement released for the
financial year January – December 2016 can be found here.

2

Stella McCartney — Modern Slavery Statement 2017

Our Company And Our Products

Stella McCartney (also referred to as “SMC” in this
statement) is a luxury lifestyle brand that was launched
under the designer’s name in a 50/50 partnership with
Kering in 2001. Stella McCartney offers women’s ready-towear, menswear and accessories as well as kidswear. A
lifelong vegetarian, Stella McCartney does not use any
leather, skins, feathers or fur in her designs, collaborations,
or licensed products. The brand is committed to ethical
values, and believes the company is responsible for the
resources it uses and the impact it has on the people,
animals and the planet.

51

Stores and
Shop-in-Shops
Worldwide

100

Countries
Shipped To

Modern Slavery Definition
Modern slavery is a term used to encompass human
trafficking, slavery, servitude, forced and compulsory
labour, bonded labour and some forms of child labour.
Victims are coerced, deceived, threatened or abused into
providing work or services without any real possibility to
refuse or remove themselves from their situation. In addition
to the above, human trafficking can also include an act of
transportation, transfer, harbouring or receipt of persons
(cross border or internal). Modern slavery is a crime and a
grave violation of fundamental human rights.

588

Permanent
Employees

863

Wholesale
Accounts

(*as of December 2017)

3

Stella McCartney — Modern Slavery Statement 2017

Our Supply Chain

Country

Product
Suppliers In
Tiers 1 & 2

Italy

65%

China

15%

Spain

05%

Hungary

03%

India

03%

Portugal

02%

Table 1: Distribution of Product Suppliers (as of December 2017)
The remaining 7% of production is split
between UK, Romania, Bulgaria, Vietnam
(Tier 1), France, Germany, Switzerland,

Our supply chain can be divided into two areas:
1.	Production of items we sell such as clothing, shoes or
bags – “Product Supply Chain” / “Product Suppliers”
2.	Not-for-resale items such as furniture or
packaging and contractors such as transport,
cleaning or security – “Procurement Supply
Chain” / “Procurement Suppliers”
Product Supply Chain
Our materials are sourced and our products manufactured
through a carefully selected network of suppliers located
around the world, many of which have worked with us since
the brand was founded. Italy is by far our biggest sourcing
country with 65% of all our Tier 1 and 2 Product Suppliers
(see Table 2 on page 9 for more information on Tiers and
Product Supply Chain visibility). Although significantly
smaller, other key sourcing countries include Hungary, Spain,
Portugal, China and India.

Japan and Turkey (Tier 2)

In 2017, we worked with 82 Tier 1 and 353 Tier 2 Product
Suppliers globally. Many of these are small manufacturers
and artisans who specialise in particular techniques and
processes. For instance, our bag manufacturers are experts
at working with our non-leather bag materials.

We trace the natural materials we use (such as cotton, wool
and viscose) back to their country of origin. Our key sourcing
countries for natural materials are India, China, Turkey,
Egypt and the USA for cotton, New Zealand for wool and
Sweden for viscose.
Procurement Supply Chain
In addition to the Product Supply Chain, Stella McCartney
operations are supported by a network of Procurement
Suppliers and contractors who help us with the day-to-day
running of our stores and offices. These include a range of
services such as transport, packaging, construction,
furniture, cleaning, catering and security.
Licence & Other Partners
The sourcing and manufacturing of ready-to-wear clothing,
accessories, shoes and kids collections are managed by
Stella McCartney. The adidas by Stella McCartney range,
together with lingerie, swimwear, eyewear and fragrance
product categories are licensed. As of December 2017, we
also had 17 indirectly operated stores.

4

New Zeland
Wool
Stella McCartney — Modern Slavery Statement 2017

The Flow of Key Raw Materials
& Key Manufacturing Locations

Sweden
Viscose

Hungary
T1 + T2 03%

Turkey
USA
Cotton

China

Spain

T1 + T2 15%

T1 + T2 05%

Egypt
Portugal
T1 + T2 02%

India
T1 + T2 03%

Italy
T1 + T2 65%

Key:
T1 - Tier 1
T2 - Tier 2

New Zealand
Wool

5

Stella McCartney — Modern Slavery Statement 2017

Relevant Policies

Kering’s Code of Ethics (The “Code”) sets out policies and
expectations for all stakeholders including Kering employees,
the Kering brands and suppliers. Employees of all Kering
brands receive a copy of the Code and are requested to
undertake an annual online refresher training course on the
Code.
The Code, available on Kering’s website, includes the Group
Supplier’s Charter (page 10), which explicitly prohibits all
forms of slavery including, but not limited to, use of child
labour, forced or compulsory labour or debt bondage.
Product Suppliers are expected to comply with the Suppliers’
Charter, the importance of the Supplier’s Charter being
reinforced during supplier training, visits and assessments.

In addition, Stella McCartney has developed two policies
and a procedure specifically in regards to modern slavery.
The Stella McCartney Modern Slavery Policy for Partners
and the Stella McCartney Modern Slavery Policy for Internal
Staff were developed in consultation with four external
partners specialising in human rights and include guidance
on modern slavery indicators, the most common risk areas
and suggested due diligence.
The Stella McCartney Modern Slavery Remediation Procedure
sets out the steps to be taken if a case of modern slavery
is identified. For example, it states that we will act with the
well-being of the individuals at risk in mind and that we will
support our partners in developing and implementing a
remediation plan.

Kering policies provide a group-wide framework and
minimum requirements which Stella McCartney has
developed further. We are a member of the Ethical Trade
Initiative (ETI) and we have adopted the ETI Base Code. The
ETI Base Code is an internationally recognised code of labour
practice founded on the conventions of the International
Labour Organisation (ILO) and it prohibits the use of forced,
bonded, or involuntary prison labour. It specifies, for
instance, that workers shall not be required to “lodge”
deposits or identity papers with their employer, a practice
that constitutes modern slavery.

6

Stella McCartney — Modern Slavery Statement 2017

Modern Slavery Due Diligence

Governance
At the highest level, the responsibility to meet the ethical
trade requirements sits with our Chief Operating Officer
(COO) and the board of directors. The responsibility for
implementing our ethical trade programme on a day-to-day
basis sits with our Sustainability and Innovation department.
Social sustainability covers all areas of managing the impacts
(both positive and negative) our business has on people,
including ethical trade. The Sustainability and Innovations
Director, who is supported by a Social Sustainability Manager
and a Sustainability Coordinator reports directly to our
COO. Ethical trade and human rights related issues are
regularly discussed with executive management.
Stakeholder Engagement
Our experience has taught us that a collective approach to
addressing the complex issues around human rights is the
most effective. We work closely with our business partners,
industry peers, external human rights experts and various
global and local stakeholders in order to strengthen our
ability to ensure that human rights are respected throughout
our operations and supply chain. In regards to modern
slavery specifically, we work with a number of partners who
have expertise in this area. For example, in 2017 we worked
with ethical trade consultancy Impactt to deliver modern
slavery training to SMC internal staff and Product Suppliers.

7

Stella McCartney — Modern Slavery Statement 2017

Modern Slavery Due Diligence

Supply Chain Mapping
Mapping and understanding our supply chains beyond direct
relationships is one of our key priorities. We recognise that
our most salient risks regarding modern slavery occur in
the lower tiers of our supply chains. Because of this, we
have placed significant focus on improving supply chain
transparency and product traceability. We have a target to
achieve farm, mine and forest level traceability of all
materials by 2025. We have mapped and continue to monitor
all Tier 1 and many Tier 2 Product Suppliers. In 2016, we
mapped and started monitoring key Procurement Suppliers.
In 2017, we improved our T2 supplier mapping by including
more trims and shoe component suppliers in the data
collection. In 2018, we mapped two new T3 suppliers (cotton
ginners) and one alpaca farm.
Human Rights And Modern Slavery Risk Assessment
We know that the more aware we are of supply chain risks,
the more we can do to prepare for and/or prevent issues
that may arise. We regularly assess environmental and human
rights risks within our Product Supply Chain to the best of
our ability, taking into account outside factors such as local
politics and climate change. Our key Procurement Suppliers
have completed a self- assessment of their hiring practices,
as the first step towards understanding the risk of modern
slavery in this part of our business.

In partnership with Ergon Associates, we conducted a
modern slavery risk assessment across all of our business
activities in 2017. The assessment focused on five areas:
forced labour, child labour, low pay, excessive working
hours and modern slavery and included our own operations,
as well as our Product Supply Chain, Procurement Supply
Chain and franchise partners. Based on the results, we
continue to investigate and achieve greater visibility of
Tiers 3 and 4 of our Product Supply Chain, particularly for
cotton (see page 11 for more details on the identified risks
and steps taken).
Supplier Audits
Although we do not rely on ethical audits alone, we find
them to be a useful tool in gaining insight and understanding
the first layer of information about our Product Suppliers.
We conduct different types of audits (including
unannounced audits) depending on the circumstances,
which help us to understand how our Product Suppliers
work, identify potential risk areas and support our Product
Suppliers in meeting required standards. Our audits are
conducted by our social sustainability staff and the Kering
audit team, as well as carefully selected specialist thirdparty auditors.

8

Stella McCartney — Modern Slavery Statement 2017

Supply Chain Mapping

Example

Visibility

Monitoring

Final product manufacturing
and assembly

Direct suppliers and their subcontractors carrying out sewing, cutting, printing, embroidery, packing or any other type
of final assembly or finishing
operations.

We have a complete map of all
manufacturing sites.

Our policy requires all sites to
be assessed and approved before
production can begin and to be
monitored on a regular basis.

Material manufacturing

Suppliers of fabrics, trims,
components and other materials
that go into final manufacturing
and assembly of our products.

Tier 2

Tier 1

Definition

Key sites are assessed and approved before production.

All key fabric and trim suppliers
for kidswear are mapped.

Raw material processing

Cotton ginners and spinners,
pulp mills, metal smelting etc.

We have a map of the sites used
by our nominated raw material
suppliers.

Raw material production

Farms
(cotton,
wool),
mines
(metals), forests (viscose, wood
and paper).

We have a country-level map of
our natural raw materials. For
some key raw materials we have
farm level traceability (such as
wool, viscose, and some cotton
farms).

Tier 3
Tier 4

We have a complete map of fabric,
trim and component suppliers for
all our mens and womens lines.

Some sites, such as those working with our nominated raw material suppliers have been visited
and assessed. As we achieve more
traceability, we will include
more of these suppliers in our
monitoring program.

All our nominated suppliers have
been visited and assessed. As we
achieve more raw material traceability, we will include more of
these suppliers in our monitoring program.

Table 2: Product supply chain tiers,
visibility and monitoring

9

Stella McCartney — Modern Slavery Statement 2017

Modern Slavery Due Diligence

Improvement Projects

Staff Training

In cases where our Product Suppliers find it difficult to
complete the remediation work identified through audits,
we include them in supplier improvement projects. These
types of projects help suppliers to understand and address
the root causes of particular issues and to develop systems
that prevent such issues from occurring again.

In 2015, Stella McCartney’s ethical trade staff participated
in human rights due diligence training on the United Nations
Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, carried
out by the specialist human rights organisation SHIFT. Key
members of Stella McCartney’s sourcing staff have
participated in modern slavery training carried out by ethical
trade organisations and the Stella McCartney ethical trade
team. Additionally, in 2016 and 2017, Stella McCartney
production and procurement teams in charge of purchasing
have received guidance on the Modern Slavery Act and
training on the risks of modern slavery in their Product
Supply Chains. Senior management, including the CEO and
the COO, continue to receive regular updates about the
company’s due diligence on modern slavery.

Supplier Training
Kering conducts an annual supplier sustainability summit
for all Tier 1 and Tier 2 Product Suppliers working with Kering
and Stella McCartney. This provides training on Kering
policies and current projects, as well as labour standards
and social compliance. In addition, we conduct training on
the Stella McCartney ethical trade programme, policies and
common ethical trade challenges facing Product Suppliers.
So far, we have conducted this type of training in Hungary,
Italy and China. In 2016, we started training our Product
Suppliers specifically on the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and
modern slavery risks in their region. The training was
delivered in person by our ethical trade team and local
ethical trade partners. Between July 2017 and June 2018,
23 key T1 Product suppliers received training on modern
slavery.

Between July 2017 and June 2018, 48 SMC staff in relevant
positions such as sustainability, production, and facilities
received specific training on modern slavery.
Grievance Mechanisms
Our Stella McCartney staff have a responsibility to raise
issues that may constitute a breach of the Kering Code,
including any instance or suspicion of forced labour or
modern slavery. Employees are informed about this
responsibility at the start of their employment and can
report any concerns or issues through Kering Ethics
Committees. Kering also operates an anonymous grievance
hotline for employees, available in eleven languages
worldwide. Employees may raise concerns directly with our
sustainability and ethical trade team or to their manager.
10

Stella McCartney — Modern Slavery Statement 2017

Identified Risks And Steps Taken
Through our social sustainability programme and modern slavery risk
assessment, we have identified four key areas:

COTTON SUPPLY
CHAINS
We are aware that there is a risk of modern
slavery in global cotton supply chains, especially in the lower supplier tiers. Cotton

?

CHILD LABOUR AND
YOUNG WORKERS

MIGRANT AND
REFUGEE WORKERS

nal migrants or economic migrants
can often have fewer rights in
the workplace and less legal protection. All SMC sourcing countries represent a risk in this
regard.

Some suppliers may lack effective age-verification systems or may subcontract HR
functions to a third party. While we have
not found any cases of child labour in our
supply chains, the potential risk was identified through the assessment conducted by
Ergon Associates. Tiers 1 and 2 in China and
India pose the highest risk of child labour
in our supply chain. The most significant

STEPS TAKEN

risk for Tiers 3 and 4 was identified as

Our auditors are trained to focus
on vulnerable groups during SMC
such

as

migrant

and

refugee workers. We conduct a
number of off-site audits to understand the vulnerability of
migrant workers and the hiring
practices in communities where
our Product Suppliers operate.
This helps us verify the accuracy of information obtained
through announced assessments
and enables us to better advise
our Product Suppliers on corrective actions.

workshop

India, China, Turkey and Egypt.
STEPS TAKEN
We work with specialist ethical trade partners in China and India who help us to
assess, monitor and train Product Suppliers
on age verification systems and adequate
working conditions for apprentices or young
workers. This helps us continue to ensure
that no child labour is used.
We noticed an increased risk of young
workers being employed in factories in
China during audits in 2017, as a result of
worsening labour shortages. As a precau-

In 2017, we organised a pilot
training

workers are often used for picking and
other processing stages. We are aware of

Workers who are refugees, inter-

audits,

is a seasonal crop, which means temporary

for

seven

key Product Suppliers in Italy,
focused on employment of migrant
workers and subcontractor management. In India, we are working
with other brands to support internal migrant workers through
improving their working condi-

tionary measure, seven of our key Product
Suppliers in China have received specialised
training on ethical hiring and recruitment
practices. It focused on areas such as
how to employ and protect apprentices and
workers between 16-18 years of age, how to
spot fake IDs and the correct remediation
procedure to follow in case children are
found in a factory.

TEMPORARY WORKERS
AND THE USE OF
RECRUITMENT AGENCIES

risks of cotton from Uzbekistan, Syria and
Turkmenistan (countries where forced labour
has been documented) being sold into China
and Turkey where it is mixed with cotton
from other countries.
In India, the Sumangali scheme has received
a lot of attention in recent years because
of the risk of young girls being recruited for bonded labour in the cotton mills.
Other relevant risk countries for us include
Turkey, China, Egypt and Africa. Turkey in
particular poses a risk due to the Syrian
refugee crisis.
STEPS TAKEN
We require our Product Suppliers to disclose the country of origin of all their
cotton (i.e. where the farming of the cotton
happens) and we do not permit the use of
any cotton from Uzbekistan, Syria or Turkmenistan for SMC products or materials.
We support the Cottonforlife Initiative in
Egypt which promotes the growth of sustainable cotton and supports local farmers,
especially women and children.
We have mapped the cotton purchasing practices of our key suppliers in China and India
to understand how we can gain visibility
through to farms. In 2018 we have mapped
one key cotton supply chain and visited two
cotton farms in Turkey. Gaining access to
the farms allows us to better understand

Temporary workers may be hired in an informal way, without contracts or paid through
an intermediary. This leaves them more
exposed to exploitation than directly employed and permanent workers. Using recruitment agencies or other intermediaries
may leave workers vulnerable to unethical
recruitment practices. Within our supply
chain, China, India and Italy have been
identified as high risk.
STEPS TAKEN
We provide training to our Product Suppliers on the risks linked to using temporary
labour and undertake off-site audits. In
2016, we piloted an improvement project with
a key Product Supplier in China to improve
the factory’s hiring practices. This included improvement of general human resource
practices, temporary worker recruitment and
subcontractor management.
Building on the work done in 2016, in 2017
seven Tier 1 key Product suppliers in China
received bespoke training on ethical hiring
and recruitment practice, with specific
focus on hiring temporary and agency labour
and subcontractor management. Mapping the
use of temporary labour and raising awareness about the risk of modern slavery have
become key parts of all supplier audits and
internal staff factory visits we conduct.

risks faced by workers involved in these

tions and providing them with

early stages of production and identify good

life skills training.

practice we can promote further.

11

Stella McCartney — Modern Slavery Statement 2017

Progress Against Indicators
Achieved

KPI
Number of internal staff who
have received training on modern
slavery

Number of suppliers who have
received training on modern
slavery

Modern slavery due diligence is part of our social
sustainability programme, which we review, develop and
strengthen on a regular basis.
As we raise awareness across our business of what modern
slavery can look like, we increase our ability to recognise
it. We see this as a positive indicator that our due diligence
is yielding results and crucially, helping workers that find
themselves in a vulnerable situation to receive appropriate
remedy. Since the release of our first modern slavery
statement (FY 2016), we have found breaches of our social
sustainabaility standard such as excessive overtime, late
payment of wages or use of recruitment agents, which if
left unaddressed may lead to cases of modern slavery. We
investigate all such cases identified during audits and site
visits and require that remediation steps are taken where
practices do not comply.
In 2017, we identified five KPIs to help us measure progress.
As we expand our work on modern slavery due diligence,
we will continue to improve our evaluation framework
including qualitative indicators.

Number of suppliers participating in improvement projects

Extent to which our Product
Supply Chain is mapped / fully
traceable

•

•
•
•

Product suppliers and key Procurement Suppliers received a Modern
Slavery Due Diligence Guidance as part of our implementation of the
Modern Slavery Policy.
23 key T1 Product Suppliers (representing 28% of our T1 supply
chain) received a tailored in-person modern slavery training between
July 2017 and June 2018.

To date, 19 of our key T1 Product Suppliers (representing 23% of our
T1 supply chain) have participated or are currently enrolled in an
improvement project.

In addition to the traceability work we have already done on viscose,
wool and cotton, described on page 4 and 12:

•
•
•

Investigation and remediation
should any instances of modern
slavery be identified

Between July 2017 and June 2018, 48 staff in key positions such as
design, production, store planning and operations received specific
training on modern slavery.

•
•

We mapped our alpaca fibre supply chain back to the farms, which we
visited and assessed in 2018.
We have mapped one key cotton supply chain and visited two cotton
farms in Turkey.
We mapped two new T3 suppliers (cotton ginners)

We are better able to identify indicators potentially leading to
modern slavery – 10% of audits / factory visits highlighted a need
for further investigation which was carried out to confirm modern
slavery was not taking place.
We require our suppliers to remediate any practices which fall
short of our standards, including cases that would constitute forced
labour or modern slavery. For example, in the last 12 months:
1— W
e identified a case of security guards’ identity documents
being withheld by a recruitment agent; and
2— A case of withholding part of workers’ wages as a way to make
workers return from holidays.
In both cases, as in any other cases, we have educated the relevant
suppliers, supported them to change these practices and have a
monitoring program in place to ensure ongoing compliance.

12

Stella McCartney — Modern Slavery Statement 2017

Progress In Priority Areas And Looking Ahead

Focus Area

1

2

T3 & T4

Develop a robust system for supply chain mapping. As a priority, we will work to improve the visibility of Tier 3 and 4 in
our cotton Product Supply Chain with a focus on identifying
opportunities for reducing human rights-related risks (including modern slavery) in these tiers.

Strengthen our supplier assessment methodology to ensure that
our audits can effectively identify indicators of modern slavery,
especially in the lower tiers of the Product Supply Chain. We
will seek feedback from relevant stakeholders on how to do
this.

We recognise the need to increase support of workers’ voices
in our supply chain and are looking into ways to develop this.

Completed

•
•
•
•

•

Next Steps

apped two new T3 suppliers (cotton
M
ginners).

•

Mapped one cotton supplier chain in
Turkey and visited 2 cotton farms.

We have reviewed our audit
methodology with support from our
ethical trade partners.
70 supplier sites across tiers
1-4 visited by our internal SMC
sustainability team between June
2017-2018 in addition to 3rd party
assessments, as another layer of
monitoring.

Piloted worker surveys with 2
suppliers.

•
•

•

3

4

Continue to raise awareness of what modern slavery can
look like through scaling up training for SMC staff and suppliers. We aim to help our suppliers build capacity to identify, remediate and prevent modern slavery in their supply
chains.

Extend monitoring across the Procurement Supply Chain in regards
to modern slavery risks.

•
•
•

Trained 48 internal staff and 23
key Product suppliers on modern
slavery.

•

Raised awareness on modern slavery
risks during every factory visit.

Conducted 21 assessments of
Procurement Suppliers.

•

Visit more cotton farms (T4) and
processing facilities such as
cotton ginners and spinners (T3)
in China and India.

Roll out new and improved audit
methodology by the end of 2018.
Increase number of assessments
across tiers 2-4.

Find and implement an effective and
systematic way to collect feedback
from workers in our supply chain.

Ensure 100% of active tier 1
suppliers complete in-depth labour
standards training with a focus on
modern slavery.

Increase number of Procurement
Suppliers assessed.

5

Approval of this statement: This statement was approved
by the Stella McCartney Ltd Board of Directors and signed
on its behalf by Helen Newman.
13

