Modern Day Slavery Statement
Samsonite International S.A.

Samsonite International S.A. (the “Company”), together with its consolidated subsidiaries (the
“Group”), is the world’s largest travel luggage company, with a heritage dating back more than
100 years. The Group is committed to conducting business in a way that is consistent with its
traditional values – acting responsibly, honestly and ethically at all times and complying with
the laws of the various countries where we do business.
This statement is made pursuant to Section 54 of the UK Modern Day Slavery Act of 2015 and
the California Transparency in Supply Chains Act of 2010 (SB 657), and constitutes the Group’s
modern day slavery statement for the financial year ended December 31, 2016.
This statement sets out our commitment to prevent the use of modern day slavery within the
Group and in our supply chain, and the steps we are taking to implement our commitment.
Business Structure, Activities & Supply Chain
The Group is principally engaged in the design, manufacture, sourcing and distribution of
luggage, business and computer bags, outdoor and casual bags, travel accessories and slim
protective cases for personal electronic devices throughout the world. The Group sells its
products primarily under the Samsonite®, Tumi®, American Tourister®, Hartmann®, High
Sierra®, Gregory®, Speck®, Lipault®, and Kamiliant® brand names, as well as under other owned
and licensed brand names.
As of December 31, 2016, the Group’s products were sold in more than 100 countries.
The Company operates using a largely decentralized structure across four key regions: Asia,
Europe, Latin America and North America. The Group sells its products through a variety of
wholesale distribution channels, through its company-operated retail stores, and through ecommerce. Its principal wholesale distribution customers are department and specialty retail
stores, mass merchants, catalog showrooms, and warehouse clubs.
The Company owns and operates manufacturing facilities in Oudenaarde, Belgium; Szekszárd,
Hungary; and Nashik, India. The majority of our products are manufactured by independently
owned and operated facilities, which are mostly located in China.

Corporate Commitment and Policies to Address Slavery
Modern day slavery in any of its forms—whether forced, bonded, compulsory or labor, human
trafficking —represents some of the gravest forms of human rights abuse. The Group has a
zero-tolerance approach to such activities, strictly forbidding slavery in our operations and in
our supply chain.
We are also committed to maintaining systems that are designed to reduce the possibility of
modern day slavery occurring in our operations and supply chain. We uphold this commitment
through our policies and governance process, supported by our leadership team.
The Company’s employee Code of Conduct is mandatory and extends to every person working
at the Group. Included in it is the Company’s corporate commitment to legal compliance,
ethical behavior, and support for labor standards enshrined by the International Labor
Organization (ILO). The Code of Conduct acknowledges the Company’s support for the ILO’s
central tenant: that people throughout the world should be able to undertake decent and
productive work in conditions of freedom, equality, security and human dignity. The Company’s
policies were recently updated to explicitly include a prohibition on the use of forced or other
compulsory labor across its business, as well as its supply chain. Employees who fail to abide by
the Group’s policies are subject to discipline and dismissal, if warranted.
The Group works to ensure that its global supply chain partners follow socially and ethically
acceptable manufacturing procedures. It was our concern for workers’ well-being that led us to
establish our Ethical Charter, setting forth our vision for decent conditions of work and
reinforcing our commitment to making continuous improvements to workplace conditions. The
Ethical Charter covers requirements related to workers’ rights, working conditions, and terms of
employment, among others. The Ethical Charter provisions are consistent with those
established by the ILO, such as prohibitions against forced labor and child labor.
Due Diligence Processes & Steps to Manage Risk
The Group does not support or knowingly maintain relationships with any business involved or
connected in any way with modern day slavery. Nevertheless, the Group understands that its
greatest risk of modern day slavery is in our product supply chain; as such, we have undertaken
activities to identify and minimize those risks with our direct and indirect final assembly
suppliers, and with raw material or component suppliers with whom we have a direct contract.
Monitoring and verification activities are carried out by a team of trained professionals based in
China and in India.

Certification from Suppliers
Compliance with the Ethical Charter is a requirement for doing business with the Group. The
Group’s manufacturing agreement with suppliers obligates suppliers to adhere to the Ethical
Charter and its process for monitoring and verification.
Training
The Company’s employees are introduced to the Code of Conduct during their induction
orientation. The Company educates its suppliers about the prohibition on human trafficking,
child labor, and other violations of our Ethical Charter through the process of requiring
adherence to the Charter and through our on-site monitoring and verification processes.
Accountability
The Group maintains and enforces internal accountability procedures for employees and
suppliers who fail to meet the Group’s standards to prevent the incidence of modern day
slavery in our operations and/or supply chain.
We provide the opportunity for everyone who works inthe Group to report suspected breaches
of the Employee Code of Conduct, including via an anonymous confidential hotline and website
reporting service. Members of the Group’s management team in the finance, legal, human
resources and internal audit departments review any information that is submitted via the
hotline. The hotline is available toll-free and is publicized to employees electronically, in our
Code of Conduct, and through posters and in worker handbooks throughout our operations.
Employees may use this hotline, anonymously if desired, if they have any workplace concern
that they wish to report. Employees using the hotline are protected against retaliation. All
legitimate reports are investigated and appropriate remedial actions taken as needed.
The Group’s social compliance team conducts monitoring site visits and evaluates suppliers’
activities that promote workplace improvements. If evidence of modern day slavery is found,
the Group will examine the circumstances and develop the best possible strategy for resolution.
The Group may act against those suppliers that do not demonstrate sufficient commitment to
the Ethical Charter, or are in breach of it; subsequent actions can include terminating the
supplier.

Program Evaluation
Evaluation of the effectiveness of our efforts to ensure that no human trafficking or modern
day slavery is present in the Company or in its supply chain rests with the country and regional
management for employees, and with sourcing and production staff in the supply chain; this
process is reviewed periodically by the internal audit team.

Approved by the Board on March 15, 2017
Signed on the Board’s behalf by Timothy Charles Parker, Chairman

