ail
ran a
GROUP
Anti-Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement 2018

Modern Slavery is a crime and violation of fundamental human rights. Modern Slavery can
take various forms, such as slavery, servitude, forced or compulsory labour and human
trafficking, all of which have in common the deprivation of a person's liberty by another in
order to exploit them for personal or commercial gain. The Cooneen Group incorporating
Cooneen by Design Ltd, Cooneen Defence Ltd, Cooneen Protection and Cooneen at
Work is committed to maintaining and improving systems and processes to avoid
complicity in human rights violations related to our own global operations, our supply chain,
and our products. This statement is made pursuant to the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and
relates to our financial year ending 30/11/2018.

The Cooneen Group is a market leading garment designer, manufacturer and supplier,
whose brand is based on integrity, innovation, success, leadership and outstanding customer
service. The Cooneen Group successfully operates in a range of clothing markets globally.
From its headquarters in the UK, Cooneen provides strong, stable supply chains in order to
meet and exceed their customers? expectations.

Cooneen realises that slavery and human trafficking can occur in many forms, for example,
forced labour, servitude, child labour, and workplace abuse; therefore its policies,
procedures and practices encompass all forms of coerced labour. Cooneen prohibits and
has a zero tolerance to all forms of modern Slavery throughout our global organisation and
supply chains.

The Cooneen group is committed to ethical improvement and legal compliance, and has
operated and continually developed its Social Accountability Management System since
2009. As members of SEDEX all Cooneen companies report on the ethical compliance of
their supply chains.

The following statement includes some of the Social Accountability activities Cooneen have
successfully undertaken and introduces the steps that have been taken in relation to our
responsibilities under the Modern Slavery Act 2015 (MSA) to ensure that slavery and human
trafficking is not taking place in any part of our business operations or supply chainoutlined in the Cooneen Anti-Slavery and Human Trafficking Policy and other related
policies and procedures, the Cooneen Group have adopted a zero-tolerance approach to
any type of coerced labour and/or human trafficking. This policy is an integral part of the

Page 1 of 3
-
vey COONEEN
ie a 7
aa 
rF

f~rRoO (iP
ha 2b Se GE

Cooneen Corporate Social Responsibility Strategy. In 2009 Directors of the Cooneen
Group voluntarily chose to establish a Social Accountability Management System (SAMS)
which respects and conforms to the requirements of the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights, International Labour Organization (ILO) conventions and other International
Instruments as displayed on the Cooneen Group website (CSR page). Cooneen Group
SAMS requires the Cooneen Group to formally commit its supply chain to ethical
improvement and to respect the ILO conventions. The company has implemented,
communicated and enforced policies, procedures, systems and controls to ensure Modern
Slavery is not taking place in either our own business or our supply chainBebb del Slits 

We recognise and acknowledge that both our business and our supply chains must be aware
of the risks and must implement procedures and processes to address all concerns through
the appropriate channels and to communicate outcomes with the interested parties. Our
Supplier Code of Conduct defines the minimum standards that our suppliers are required to
adhere to, wherever they procure materials, manufacture or perform services for the
Cooneen Group.

The Cooneen Group has risk assessed its supply chain to identify if there are any significant
areas of concern. Our extensive sourcing and ethical evaluation programmes cover the
entire product supply chain. Mobilisation of our extensive Ethical Assurance Programme
which ensures impartiality and transparency, has resulted in gaining ethical commitment to
ILO conventions, Labour Standards and compliance to the Modern Slavery Act for all its
Tier suppliers. Ethical audits have also been conducted within the supply chain across Tier
2 supplier?s dependant on the result of risk assessments.

The ethical risk assessment process takes into consideration the following key points:

The supplier/subcontractor Location
2. Supplier ethical history and commitment to Social Accountability.

Ethical Audit key indicators include:

Age of employee

Right to work

Safe and healthy working environment including building structures.

No Forced or coerced labour and work contracts provided in employees own
language.

hw YN

Within the Supply Chain the Cooneen Group will continue to develop its Ethical Risk
programme during 2018 to:

Ensure minimal risk of slavery and human trafficking within all of its locations globally.

Page 2 of 3
2. Encourage our supply base to develop and implement their own Social
Accountability Management systems.

3. Implement our annual SAMS training programme which includes Modern Slavery
requirements.

4. Maintain the Cooneen Group?s excellent Social Accountability reputation.

This statement has been reviewed by the Cooneen Group Board of Directors and is
approved by:

Mellwrath

Business Support Director Date: 04/01/2018

Page 3 of 3
