 Barbour Sons ?Barbour?)
Ethical Treatment of Workers

Barbour will ensure that we comply with relevant, current legislation and industry standards
to ensure that labour standards and human rights at the work place are met. This includes
compliance with the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and the International Labour Office (ILO) to
prevent forced and compulsory labour, discrimination at the work place and child labour in
the countries in which we operate.

What Barbour is doing
1. Factory Audits by Barbour
In order to monitor compliance with these standards:-

- our Supply Chain Team visits factories in person; and
- we engage local, professional third party independent auditors to conduct detailed
audits.

Barbour has a dedicated Ethical Trading Champion who receives training and updates on
ethical standards and the ILO standards.

2. SEDEX (Supplier Ethical Data Exchange)

Barbour is a full member of SEDEX which is a not-for-profit organisation enabling access to
independent and comprehensive third party audit reports on factories and suppliers. These are
used to complement our assessment of our suppliers? ethical standards.

3. Non-Compliance

Where Barbour becomes aware of any non-compliance, Barbour may either terminate the
business relationship or alternatively, depending on the seriousness of the non-compliance
and in order to improve the working environment of the factory, may engage the factory in
formal corrective planning to ensure compliance within agreed timescales.

4. Signed Legal Agreements for Ethical Supply Standards

Barbour insists on comphance with these ethical standards in a legal framework. If suppliers
materially breach these standards (which would be identified by Barbour when undertaking
factory audits or assessing third party audits), then Barbour would not tolerate such material
breaches and discontinue supply.

5. Statement of Compliance

All factories involved in the production of Barbour branded goods must have given their
written commitment to the principles set out in Appendix 1. This must happen before
Barbour will approve use of any factory or workplace.

Barbour considers the above measures are an effective means of ensuring that all workers in
our supply chain have a fair and safe workplace which is free from forced labour and
provides a safe and fair place to work.

Appendix 1 Code of Practice

 
It is Barbour?s policy that its product manufacturers must comply with the following ethical
standards:-

Not to use forced or compulsory labour
To pay the national minimum wage in the country the factory is based

Working conditions must be safe and hygienic according to local health and safety
legislation and workers must receive regular and recorded health and safety training
for their role (the responsibility for health and safety being assigned to a senior
management representative)

Workers must have access to clean toilet facilities, drinkable water and clean
Jacilities for food storage and, where accommodation is provided, this must meet the

basic needs of the workers

Not to use child labour in contravention of the provisions of the International Labour
Office (no worker is employed under the statutory minimum working age in the
country in which the factory is based)

Overtime is voluntary, not demanded on a regular basis, paid at a premium rate and
compliant with local laws

Workers are not forced to lodge or deposit their identity papers, passports or other
formal documents required for work and are free to leave employment with
reasonable notice given by the worker

No discrimination is practised in any way including race, national origin, religion,
age, disability, gender, marital status, sexual orientation, union membership or
political affiliation

The workers? presence in the workplace is voluntary and not as the result of any
direct or indirect coercion including force, bonded or prison labour

No harsh or inhumane treatment is practised including mental cruelty, physical
punishment, verbal abuse, sexual harassment or any other form of intimidation

The worker's rights to freedom of association and collective bargaining are respected
and there is no prohibition on joining a union which is not under the control of the
management of the supplier

Workers? representatives are not discriminated against and have access to carry out
their representative functions in the workplace

Workers must be provided with written and understandable information about their
employment conditions in respect of wages and other conditions

No deductions from pay are to be made which are not permitted by law without the
consent of the worker

Workplaces comply with all employment standards, regulations or other legal or
statutory requirements including requirements relation to pay, working conditions,
heaith, fire and safety regulations

This statement has been approved by the Board of Barbour Sons in October 2017

. 
Sardine Lecvuseesseens

Ian Sime
Director

 
