 Barbour Sons (?Barbour?)
Modern Slavery Statement
Our Business

Barbour Sons is a fifth-generation family-owned business which, in 2019, is
celebrating its 125" year of trading. The business has exceeded the ?200m threshold in its
latest annual accounts and now conducts its business through wholesale, retail and
ecommerce distribution.

Barbour has two trading subsidiaries, Barbour Inc (USA) and Barbour Europe (Germany).
Barbour distributes through independent authorised dealers in the UK and abroad. As the
parent company of the Group, Barbour Sons organises the manufacture of its
products on behalf of Barbour Inc and Barbour (Europe) Ltd.

We continue to manufacture ?lassic wax jackets in our South Shields factory and engage
trusted suppliers to manufacture products in our global supply chains.

Our Policy

We condemn any abuse of human rights and fully endorse all measures taken to eradicate
modern slavery in supply chains, Accordingly, we are committed to working with suppliers
who comply with the human rights standards set by the International Labour Office (ILO).
These are the basis of our Code of Practice at Appendix 1.

The ILO is an agency set up by the United Nations and brings together government,
employers and workers of 187 member states to set labour standards, develop policies and
devise programmes promoting decent work for all women and men.

What Barbour has done in the last year

In 2018, we continued to monitor human welfare standards in our supply chain using the
measures set out in this statement.

In 2018, we identified minor corrective measures to be taken with certain suppliers. We set
in place corrective action plans working with suppliers to monitor improvement.

Measuring the ILO Standards

For Barbour, the ILO standards are paramount. Any serious breach of the standards would
likely lead to termination of the business relationship between Barbour and its supplier.

Minor incidents will be considered in their context and preportionate action wilt be taken,
Barbour may decide to engage the relevant supplier or factory in corrective action and will
support the supplier or factory in improving their standards. The supplier?s standards will be
closely measured and any minor incidents must be rectified within a specific timeframe. By
setting targets, we measure the effectiveness of our enforcement methods and ensure the 
standards are maintained.

If the supplier does not adequately address any non-compliance points despite being required
to do so by Barbour, then this will likely result in Barbour discontinuing the relationship.

 
- Inspecting Factories

Barbour?s staff personally visit each factory before manufacturing takes place to assess its
ethical compliance. No factory is used by Barbour unless it has been approved for use by a
Barbour employee. We are happy to commit resources to do this to ensure the ILO standards
are met.

- Independent Audits

Barbour will follow up in the measures above by engaging independent audits from third
party experts once production has started to ensure that the standards are applied consistently.

No unauthorised subcontracting is allowed so we can contro] where our goods are made and
the standards which are used at the factory.

We also engage local, professional, independent auditors to conduct detailed audits which
will look in depth at compliance with these standards in the factories.

- Ethical Trading Champion

On many occasions, we will send our Ethical Trading Champion to our suppliers? factories to
undertake compliance audits orto supervise and check the independent audit, Barbour?s
Ethical Trading Champion continues to undertake extensive training in order to be as skilled
as possible when auditing factories and updated on the ILO standards.

We ensure that our Supply Chain Team and any other relevant staff members are fully aware
of the Code of Practice at Appendix 1 and that any notification of non-compliance is
highlighted to the Ethical Trading Champion for action,

- Supplier Ethical Data Exchange (SEDEX)

Barbour is a full member of SEDEX which is a not-for-profit organisation enabling access to
independent and comprehensive audit reports on factories and suppliers.

SEDEX is used to complement our assessment of our suppliers? ethical standards to ensure
that ILO standards are always maintained.

When factories are members of SEDEX, we can verify that SEDEX audits have been
satisfactority completed on the factories.

Legal Agreements

When Barbour engages a new supplier, we will set in place a legal agreement which includes
enforceable obligations to ensure compliance with the ILO standards. This will give Barbour
the ability to take legal action, if required, in respect of any non-compliance identified from
audits,

This statement has been approved by the Board of Directors of Barbour Sons on 25
March 2019. 

I enesecenas

 

 
Jan Sime
Director of Supply Chain and Board Director
25 March 2019

 
Appendix 1 Code of Practice
It is Barbour?s policy that its suppliers must comply with the following ethical standards:-

Not to use forced or compulsory labour

To pay the national minimum wage in the country the factory is based

Working conditions must be safe and hygienic according to local health and safety
legislation and workers must receive regular and recorded health and safety training
Jor their role (the responsibility for health and safety being assigned to a senior
management representative)

Workers must have access to clean toilet facilities, drinkable water and clean
Jacililies for food storage and, where accommodation is provided, this must meet the
basic needs of the workers

Not to use child labour in contravention of the provisions of the International Labour
Office (no worker is employed under the statutory minimum working age in the
country in which the factory is based)

Overtime is voluntary, not demanded on a regular basis, paid at a premium rate and
compliant with local laws

Workers are not forced to lodge or deposit their identity papers, passports or other
Jormal documents required for work and are free to leave employment with
reasonable notice given by the worker

No discrimination is practised in any way including race, national origin, religion,
age, disability, gender, marital status, sexual orientation, union membership or
political affiliation

The workers? presence in the workplace is voluntary and not as the result of any
direct or indirect coercion including force, bonded or prison labour

No harsh or inhumane treatment is practised including mental cruelty, physical -
punishment, verbal abuse, sexual harassment or any other form of intimidation

The worker's rights to freedom of association and collective bargaining are respected
and there is no prohibition on joining a union which is not under the control of the
management of the supplier

Workers? representatives are not discriminated against and have access to carry out
their representative functions in the workplace

?e Workers must be provided with written and understandable information about their
employment conditions in respect of wages and other conditions

No deductions from pay are to be made which are nat permitted by law without the
consent of the worker 

Workplaces comply with all employment standards, regulations or other legal or
siatutory requirements including requirements relation to pay, working conditions,
heaith, fire and safety regtlations

 
