ANNUAL STATEMENT ON MODERN SLAVERY
MARCH 2019

The William Lamb Group publishes this statement under the provisions of the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015.
The Act requires Businesses to state the actions they have taken in the previous year to mitigate the risk of
acts of slavery and human trafficking from occurring within their supply chains.
This statement relates to the financial year ended 31st December 2018

Our Business Structure and Supply Chains
The William Lamb Group is a family owned business, in existence since 1887, importing
and supplying footwear and bags to leading retailers and wholesalers that operate in the
UK and at an international level.
The company has an annual turnover of close on £45 million, 85% of which is footwear sales and
the balance bags and accessories. We are one of the largest licence holders in the UK with
Disney, Hasbro and eOne amongst our portfolio. The company’s head office is in Wakefield,
Yorkshire where we employ over 90 people and over 30 people across 3 offices in the Far East.
The company operates across 4 source countries: China, which accounts for 80% of our business,
India, Vietnam and Laos. We do not manufacture directly but source from preferentially selected
third party manufacturing sites, our tier 1 suppliers. These in turn will source the materials and
components that go into the finished products from a variety of suppliers across an international
spectrum. We acknowledge that the supply chain is complex and stretches to a number of tiers
beyond the 1st level of manufacturing sites.

The products we import cover a wide range of footwear from adult’s leather shoes, sandals and
boots to children’s school shoes, indoor slippers and rubber rainboots. Additionally we supply
school bags, backpacks, lunch boxes, travel luggage and umbrellas.
Our main business involves sourcing and auditing of factories, the designing of product ranges,
developing samples, customer sales, sourcing materials, order placement and production
management, quality control, logistics and warehousing. Our employees in the UK and overseas
are mostly full time, long service but on occasion we do contract warehouse staff to assist with
busy periods.

Our Policies and Practices
We build supplier partnerships which are positive and for the long term and it is important that we
and our suppliers encourage a culture of honesty and accountability. The William Lamb Group are
totally opposed to any form of slavery within our supply lines. Our Due Diligence Policy on Modern
Slavery makes clear that wherever we operate, we will always abide by the law and do everything
we can to eliminate any forced labour, human trafficking and slavery practices. WLG also expect
the same commitment from our suppliers no matter where they operate to ensure our customers
have total trust in the products and services that we provide.
Our guiding principles are defined by the Ethical Trade Initiative Base code of practice.
We are members of the Stronger Together Initiative: www.stronger2gether.org which has enabled
the company to develop a series of policies which form the backbone of our current approach to
mitigating the risks of Human Trafficking and Modern Slavery from occurring within our supply
chain:








Due Diligence Policy on Modern Slavery
Bribery and Corruption Policy
Employee Grievance Policy
Ethical Trading Manual
Ethical Trade and Human Rights Self-Assessment
Worker Questionnaire
Policy on Forced Labour

The process of implementation of our policies into the Tier 1 supply base is complete and within
the Tier 2 suppliers is currently ongoing. Validation of the effectiveness of our policies is carried
out by regular supplier visits from our Corporate Social Responsibility personnel who operate
within each source country. The policies have been translated into local language and include
whistleblower policies to encourage active worker participation.
It is our aim to ensure our suppliers actively integrate our policies within their own organisation and
encourage worker participation in reporting any human rights issues and concerns.
Our UK labour provider (for Warehousing and cleaning staff) is a member of the Stronger
Together Initiative and we have carried out an audit of their practices to ensure compliance. Our
forthcoming strategy is to ensure our suppliers are issued with a Recruitment Policy that ensures
‘The Employer Pays’ principle and adopt that as part of their own internal recruitment policy. This
will ensure that no worker is required to pay any recruitment fees or otherwise indebted when
seeking employment.
Our human rights strategy is led by the Director for Corporate Social Responsibility who is also a
Board member and reports directly to the CEO.

Due Diligence and Risk Assessment
Our approach to identifying risks within the supply chain has been developed over the last three
years through interaction with the Ethical Trade Initiative, Stronger Together Initiative, suppliers,
Third party Auditors and External Training programmes.
We have invested significant financial and personnel resources into the implementation of our due
diligence programme and foresee an increase in the financial budget to enable wider integration of
suppliers at Tier 2 and below. The framework we have adopted in mitigating risk is based on five
essential steps:

1. Mapping the supply chain to get a global
perspective
2. Define our priorities through assessing the level
of risk
3. Set our course of action
4. Decide upon remediation where discovered
5. Incorporate experiences gained into future
strategies
We begin with a Self-Assessment Questionnaire which allows the supplier to volunteer information
about their business and employment practices. We will then follow up with a site visit by one of
our highly trained compliance personnel in order to validate the information contained in the report.
A risk profile is assigned to each supplier which is based on geographical situation, complexity of
product and cost profile and potential number of tiers within the supply chain.
Much of the essential work we carry out is through direct lines of communication with our suppliers
and involves visiting the site to carry out verification checks on workers through random
interviews. We look for risks within the responses to the interviews, the physical conditions of the
work environment and any dormitories associated with the workplace. In addition to our own field
work we have partnered with external third party audit companies to assist in areas of potential
high risk.
We use these assessments as an opportunity to impart an understanding of Modern Slavery risks
to the workers and ask in return that they remain vigilant and communicative if they become aware
of any instances of a breach of our Modern Slavery Code.

Training, Capacity Building and KPI’s
Raising awareness of the issues around Modern Day Slavery and Human Trafficking within our
supply chains is one of the key components of our Social Responsibility Programme.
Gaining Trust and cooperation from our suppliers is vital if we are to make a significant impact on
this issue so we have spent the last 12 months giving training sessions at our Tier 1 sites. These
sessions have included the following material:




Stronger Together Awareness Training.
Our own training on our due diligence policy and how we expect management and workers
to engage with it.
Transparency with Supply base mapping and our course of action over the short, mid and
long term.

These training sessions have included some of the tier 2 suppliers who play a prominent role in
supplying some of the core components. It is envisaged that these suppliers will be able to impart
the learnings from these training sessions further along the supply chain.
It is our intention to move beyond third party audits where practicable and use our resources to
focus on targeted training sessions and improvement strategies. One of the ways we will be doing
this in the next 12 months will be to use our key suppliers to hold trainings sessions for their peers.
We see this as a winning strategy in enabling suppliers to openly share their own initiatives and
we expect a more rapid filtration into the lower tier suppliers as a result.
We can measure our performance to date:






The number of Tier 1 completed Self-assessment Questionnaires
The number of worker completed questionnaires
The number of worker interviews conducted on site
Onsite Training courses held
The number of Tier 2 sites visited and assessed by our compliance team



Our target for 2019 is to drive the supplier training sessions forward to which the 2 nd/3rd and
4th tier suppliers will be invited to attend.
Further Mapping of the supply chain



This statement has been approved by the Board of Directors of the William Lamb Group and will
be reviewed annually.

Jane Wilson
CEO, William Lamb Group , 26th March 2019

