The William Lamb Group Statement on Slavery and Human Trafficking

Our Organisation and Business
The William Lamb Group committed to a policy of conducting business aligned with
our core values of equality, honesty and integrity. We have been a member of the
Ethical Trade Initiative since its conception and have taken a key role in steering
business practices towards a fairer and more sustainable future. We will, therefore,
only work with suppliers who share our corporate values and who are willing to adapt
their own processes to suit our strict requirements.
We are an importer of footwear, bags and umbrellas with an annual turnover in
excess of £60 million. We are one of the largest licence holders in the UK, with
Disney, Universal and Hasbro amongst our portfolio.
Our supply chain is complex and includes over 40 product manufacturers throughout
China, India, Vietnam and Europe. These factories will in turn have contracts with a
variety of raw material vendors and chemical suppliers.
Our Policy on Slavery and Human Trafficking
We have a zero tolerance on all forms of forced or bonded labour and we are wholly
committed to ensuring there is no human trafficking or modern slavery within our
entire supply chain.
Our Due Diligence Process
Our Corporate Compliance Team, currently numbering 14 highly trained specialists,
operates to a clearly defined system of principles and procedures. Our rigorous
assessment system enables us to engage constructively with suppliers and create a
pathway for continuous and sustainable improvement. We require complete
transparency in their working hours and wage records and employment practices
which are then verified through interviewing workers and random monitoring.

•
•
•

We have a written policy and guidelines for factory owners and workers which
is displayed in each factory.
Our appraisal of 1st tier manufacturers is continuous.
Over the next twelve months we are initiating a programme that will ensure
our 1st tier suppliers actively drive compliance of our policy and strategy with
their own vendors.

How do we measure our effectiveness in Combating Slavery and Human
Trafficking?
Through setting a course of mapping our supply chain we will drive efficiencies in
procurement and ultimately foster greater transparency. In our dealings with
suppliers we always prefer direct contact in order to build up the level of
communication and understanding of our requirements. It is not straightforward as
we do not normally have contractual dealings with 2nd tier suppliers and beyond.
•
•
•

We aim to draw up a complete picture of who those suppliers are and where
they are located.
We aim to hold our 1st tier suppliers accountable for ensuring that their own
vendors are compliant.
We aim to police our supply chain through selective and random auditing.

This statement, pursuant to section 54(1) of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 constitutes
our Group position on Slavery and Human Trafficking for the current financial year.

Stuart Lamb
Chairman

