Cha Technologies Group 

Modern Slavery Statement for financial year 2016/17

INTRODUCTION

Slavery and human trafficking remains a hidden blight on our global society. We all have a responsibly to
be alert to the risks, however small, in our business and in the wider supply chain. Staff are expected to
report concerns and management are expected to act upon them.

OUR BUSINESS

The group manufacturers fibres and nonwoven products and has operations in Australia, Brazil, China,
Europe, USA and Vietnam.

Our business is organised into manufacturing and distribution.
OUR SUPPLY CHAINS

Our supply chains include the sourcing of raw materials principally related to the provision of fibres and
nonwoven products.

OUR POLICIES ON SLAVERY AND HUMAN TRAFFICKING

We are committed to ensuring that there is no modern slavery or human trafficking in our supply chains
or in any part of our business. Our Anti-slavery Policy reflects our commitment to acting ethically and
with integrity in all our business relationships and to implementing and enforcing effective systems and
controls to ensure slavery and human trafficking is not taking place anywhere in our supply chains.

DUE DILIGENCE PROCESSES FOR SLAVERY AND HUMAN TRAFFICKING
As part of our initiative to identify and mitigate risk -

Where possible we build long standing relationships with local suppliers and tenancy
customers and make clear our expectations of business behaviour;

With regards to national or international supply chains, we expect these entities to have
suitable anti-slavery and human trafficking policies and processes. We expect each entity in
the chain to, at least, adopt ?one-up? due diligence on the next link in the chain. It is not
practical for us (and every other participant in the chain) to have a direct relationship with
all links in the chain.

We have in place systems to encourage the reporting of concerns and the protection of
whistle blowers.

SUPPLIER ADHERENCE TO OUR VALUES

We have zero tolerance to slavery and human trafficking. We expect all those in our supply chain and
contractors comply with our values.
The Directors and Managers are responsible for compliance in their respective departments and for
their supplier relationships.

TRAINING

To ensure a high level of understanding of the risks of modern slavery and human trafficking in our
supply chains and our business, we provide training to relevant members of staff. All Directors have
been briefed on the subject.

OUR PERFORMANCE INDICATORS

We will know the effectiveness of the steps that we are taking to ensure that slavery and/or human
trafficking is not taking place within our business or supply chain if:

Noreports are received from employees, the public, or law enforcement agencies to indicate
that modern slavery practices have been identified.

Use of labour monitoring and payroll systems; and

Level of communication and personal contact with next link in the supply chain and their
understanding of, and compliance with, our expectations.

This statement is made pursuant to section 54(1) of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and constitutes our
group's slavery and human trafficking statement for the current financial year

ile

Director
Cha Technologies Group 
