Modern Slavery Act 2015 (UK)
Statement for Financial year ending 31st March 2019

Our principal raw material is greasy wool, most of which is sourced from Australia,
New Zealand, South Africa, South America and Europe. The vast majority of our
greasy wool is purchased at public auctions by our company and its foreign
subsidiaries where, in most cases, there is no direct contact with the original wool
grower. Most of the greasy wool is then transported and processed at our combing mill
in the Czech Republic and then sold onto our customers
We are committed to ensuring that acts of slavery and human trafficking do not exist
anywhere within our business or supply chain.
The company has assessed its supplier types and categorised them into the level of
risk that has been identified. This assessment is based on the extent of the local laws
and the rule of law in those countries, the type of product or service provided and any
adverse media and trade reports. Where the product or service is deemed to contain
minimal risk, such as for the type of services provided to us by established UK firms,
further assurance will not normally be sought.
G. Modiano Limited has asked all of its principal wool suppliers across the world to
sign statements confirming that neither they nor their supply chains engage in slavery
and human trafficking as defined by the UK’s Modern Slavery Act 2015. We have
received signed statements from all our principal suppliers. Our mill in the Czech
Republic has also confirmed that they are in full compliance with the Act.
We are pleased to report that we are not aware of any incidence of slavery or human
trafficking in the wool growing industry in those countries where we source wool.

Indeed, most of our wool comes from countries with a long-established respect for the
law and where slavery and human trafficking is illegal.
All procurement staff have been informed of the risks and the need for vigilance
especially when selecting new suppliers. A staff training programme is planned for
later this year.

M Modiano

10th May 2019

M. Modiano
Chief Executive - G Modiano Ltd
This statement has been approved by the Board of Directors

