MODERN SLAVERY STATEMENT
LPP SA

This statement concerns all companies belonging to the LPP Group, further referred to as LPP.

INTRODUCTION
While developing our business, we become an organisation
that is more and more mature and conscious. We also want
to be a reliable and responsible partner for those around us.
For 25 years, owing to the passion and engagement of our people, we have built one of the largest
fashion companies in Europe, becoming an undisputed leader of the Polish clothing industry. The open
business culture of our organisation enables us to react immediately to changes taking place in the
clothing industry and the entire world around us. What is also important is that each of us has the
possibility of individual development. Despite the scale and scope of our business activity, we avoid
unnecessary procedures, we take key decisions boldly and build friendly and partner relations within
the company. We know and respect each other, and, thanks to our common passion for fashion and
design, we consider the development of LPP and our brands not only as a shared task but also as a
common source of pride, joy and satisfaction.
Openness, diversity, responsibility for our shared development and mutual respect create our
company’s unique culture. Yet, the most important foundation of our work is freedom.
We

fully,

completely

and

unconditionally

oppose

any

form

of

forced

labour.

This objection is made known along with the company’s values and is an intrinsic part of our DNA. In
this document, you will find information on actions we take to counteract modern slavery.

LPP STRATEGY
We are a company dealing with the design and distribution of clothing. Our sales network covers the
whole of Poland, as well as the countries of Central, Eastern and Western Europe, the Balkans, and the
Middle East. To the millions of customers visiting the showrooms and shops on-line, we offer the
clothing, accessories and footwear of five popular brands: Reserved, House, Cropp, Mohito and Sinsay.
LPP has a local representative unit in every country where its products are available. The foreign LPP
units are managed by professionals from the fashion industry who successfully run businesses in their
countries.
Our designers, graphic designers and technologists prepare each season collections of LPP brands,
taking into account the latest fashion trends. The LPP philosophy is think locally and act globally,
therefore, building our business, we adjust the offer of individual brands to customers in different
countries.
We do not have our own production facilities – the execution of a collection, as in the case of our global
competitors, is commissioned to outside companies in Poland, as well as in other countries in Europe
and Asia. We invest in both the expansion of the sales network in the countries where our brands are
already known, as well as in new prospective markets. Currently, we are focussing primarily on
strengthening the visibility of our flagship brand, Reserved, in Europe.
At the same time, we are investing in modern sales channels and their mutual integration, that is,
omnichannel. Soon, our on-line shops will operate in all markets where we have our own physical
network. We are aware of the importance of e-commerce in the apparel industry in which we see a
great potential for further development. Thanks to significant investments, our Internet sales are
growing at a pace of 100 percent a year.
In implementing our strategy we also want to ensure that our growth is stable, balanced and consistent
with the principles of socially responsible business.

Our business model determines and is identical to our supply chain.

Characteristics of the LPP SA Capital Group
The LPP SA Capital Group (Capital Group, Group) consists of:
■ LPP SA – as the parent company,
■ 4 domestic subsidiaries,
■ 19 foreign subsidiaries.

LPP SA has no parent company.
The list of companies forming the Capital Group is presented below.

1.

LPP Retail Sp. z o.o.

Gdańsk, Poland

Date of taking
control
26.09.2001

2.

DP&SL Sp. z o.o.

Gdańsk, Poland

26.09.2001

3.

IL&DL Sp. z o.o.

Gdańsk, Poland

26.09.2001

4.

AMUR Sp. z o.o.

Gdańsk, Poland

09.05.2003

5.

LPP Estonia OU

Tallinn, Estonia

29.04.2002

6.

LPP Czech Republic SRO

Prague, the Czech Republic

16.09.2002

7.

LPP Hungary KFT

Budapest, Hungary

18.10.2002

No

Company name

Registered office

8.

LPP Latvia LTD

Riga, Latvia

30.09.2002

9.

LPP Lithuania UAB

Vilnius, Lithuania

27.01.2003

10.

LPP Ukraina AT

Peremyshliany, Ukraine

23.07.2003

11.

RE Trading OOO

Moscow, Russia

12.02.2004

12.

LPP Romania Fashion SRL

Bucharest, Romania

12.08.2007

13.

LPP Bulgaria LTD

Sofia, Bulgaria

14.08.2008

14.

LPP Slovakia SRO

Bańska Bystrzyca, Slovakia

30.10.2008

15.

LPP Fashion Bulgaria LTD

Sofia, Bulgaria

26.08.2011

16.

Gothals LTD

Nicosia, Cyprus

22.07.2011

17.

LPP Croatia DOO

Zagreb, Croatia

22.01.2014

18.

Reserved GmbH

Hamburg, Germany

03.03.2014

19.

IPMS Management Services FZE

Ras Al Khaimah, UAE

15.07.2015

20.

LPP Reserved UK LTD

Altrincham, UK

15.10.2015

21.

LLC Re Development

Moscow, Russia

22.04.2016

22.

LLC Re Street

Moscow, Russia

02.09.2016

23.

LPP Reserved doo Beograd

Belgrade, Serbia

26.12.2016

OUR POLICIES AND COMMITMENTS
In 2017, LPP adopted the Sustainable Development Strategy for the years 2017-2019, which
makes it clear that the control of the supply chain and care for the rights of the staff of LPP
and our suppliers are key priorities for LPP. In spring 2018, we will publish the first integrated
report of LPP SA, comprising a whole set of information on the company’s non-financial
activities.
Examples of steps we are taking to mitigate the modern slavery and forced labour risks
identified in our Sustainable Development Strategy 2017-2019:
•

Introduction line of an assortment made from sustainable sources (e.g. organic cotton,
recycled materials, etc.).

•

Continuously raising standards of fire safety and fire protection in LPP manufacturing
plants.

•

Conducting factory audits in Bangladesh to ensure our suppliers comply with LPP's
Code of Conduct, including timely payment of wages and overtime and not employing
minors.

•

Start working with new suppliers in Bangladesh, provided they are covered by an
Accord audit.

•

Joining an international organization supporting supply chain control globally.

•

Implement a separate code of conduct for sewing suppliers for LPP in Poland.

•

Acceptance of the Code of Ethics along with Whistleblowing.

•

Establishment of ethics ombudsman skills, phone / mail box reporting irregularities.

•

Educational campaign among employees of LPP SA on Code of Ethics.

•

Ethics training for managers on anti-corruption and abuse.

•

Adopt and implement a sustainable development strategy.

•

Sustainable development meeting for managers with presentation of the progress of
the strategy.

CODE OF CONDUCT
We have written down our values and rules in the form of
the Code of Conduct to be received by all our suppliers.
We outsource the manufacturing of LPP brand clothes to factories located in Asian countries and in
Europe, including Poland. Our Code of Conduct sets out the requirements which LPP's suppliers must
meet, as well as the values and standards we expect to be observed. It is also used to verify whether
these rules are observed in our suppliers’ day-to-day business practice. The Code of Conduct
incorporates the key provisions of the convention of the International Labour Organisation and the
Universal Declaration of Human Rights as well as recommendations of international social
organisations monitoring working conditions in the textile industry.
The Code of Conduct covers the following most important issues:
• wage policy and formal employment requirements
• unconditional ban to employ children and regulations governing employment of youth
workers

• voluntariness of work
• freedom of association
• equal treatment of all workers irrespective of sex, age, disability, origin, race, marital status,
sexual orientation, political beliefs, membership (or non-membership) in organisations or
caste or religious affiliation
• health and work safety standards
• suppliers’ environmental duties.
For us, verification of observance of the Code of Conduct is a key element. We reserve the right to
carry out unannounced audits in all factories we cooperate with.

AUDITS
We are proud of what we have achieved so far both in terms of improving
working conditions in factories manufacturing our clothes and in the very
attitude of our company to the control of the supply chain. LPP is the only
company in Central and Eastern Europe, which has been engaged in the
process of changes to such an extent and that is why I believe we will be
followed by other fashion companies.
- Marek Piechocki
President of the Management Board of LPP S.A.

The Code of Conduct by itself is not enough; as set out above, it is also necessary for us to support our
suppliers in implementing the Code of Conduct and to ensure that our suppliers comply with its
provisions. LPP applies three verification methods – our internal structures including the three units
discussed below, external specialists with expertise in social issues and, in terms of safety, cooperation
with an international association of textile companies.
Three units formed in recent years within LPP’s structure are engaged, on a regular basis, in the control
of working conditions at our suppliers’ factories:
•

the Audit Department operating in our head office is responsible for developing standards and
requirements for suppliers and for their effective verification

•

LPP’s representative office in Dhaka, the capital city of Bangladesh, is responsible, amongst
other things, for auditing factories to which we outsource our production and

•

the Communications and Sustainable Development Department deals with setting key
directions of the company’s CSR policy and communicating the results of actions in this area
to the public.

Furthermore, in the factory auditing process, we are given support by renowned professional external
companies specialising in such activities. At present, we are working with SGS, an international audit
company, covering the assessment of risks relating to the observance of LPP’s Code of Conduct by
factories to which we outsource the production of our collections.

LPP’s activity as part of the BANGLADESH ACCORD
We joined the Accord on Fire and Building Safety in Bangladesh four years ago. This is an international
agreement signed by global clothing companies which is aimed at verifying and improving the
condition of fire safety equipment, power supply installations and the structures of factory buildings.
It therefore focuses on issues closely related to the safety of people employed in the clothing industry
in Bangladesh.
When developing a remediation plan for a given factory, those members of Accord which are the key
customers of that factory have responsibility for supervising the implementation the remediation plan.
The representatives of LPP also take part in that process in the factories for which LPP is the biggest
client. Eighty factories manufacturing our brand clothing are under the close supervision of the
Bangladesh Accord.

GRIEVANCE MECHANISM IN ACCORD
Apart from controlling health and work safety conditions, an important aspect of the activity of the
Bangladesh Accord is also the know-how support of factories’ owners and the education of ordinary
workers in respect of health and work safety and their rights. The factories for which LPP is a key client
participate in educational projects. The Bangladesh Accord provides for a grievance mechanism which
is more and more often applied by workers. In cases where issues involving forced labour are raised,
companies cooperating with a given factory are notified immediately.

SOCIAL AUDITS

On a regular basis, we carry out unannounced audits covering social issues. These audits may be carried
out by our internal audit department or by SGS, an international audit company, on LPP's behalf.
Verification is based on documentation, factory inspections and interviews with workers. Information
on any defaults and threats is given by SGS auditors forthwith to LPP. Based on information received
and following a meeting with a factory owner, LPP makes a decision, if need be, to implement a
corrective action plan in that factory. The progress in executing the corrective action plan is verified
on a regular basis. In case of identifying risk in critical areas such as voluntariness of work, the audit
department will take, together with the Management Board of LPP, individual decisions on further
cooperation with the supplier. We focus on executing remediation actions together with our business
partners whenever possible. Each case is analysed individually. The first series of audits will be
completed in 2017. Any further audits and actions will follow depending on their results. We consider
this project as the next natural step to secure transparency of our supply chain.

AUDIT

NO IRREGULARITIES OR RISK

ASSESSMENT OF
IRREGULARITIES
AND RISK

VISIT OF
LPP
AUDITOR

CAP

FOLLOWUP

ASSESSMENT OF
CRITICAL
IRREGULARITIES
AND RISK

VISIT OF
LPP
AUDITOR

RECOMMENDAT
ION OF THE
AUDIT
DEPARTMENT

DECISION
OF THE
BOARD

IMPORTANT
•

100% of factories manufacturing clothes for LPP in Bangladesh are covered by the Bangladesh
Accord.

•

In total, in the years 2013-2017, there were 6,500 audits carried out at the factories of LPP
suppliers.

•

Audits involve verification of all aspects of voluntariness of work.

•

During audits, auditors talk with chosen workers, with anonymity assured.

•

One of the criteria for auditing voluntariness of work is verification of whether workers have
been deprived of documents or charged for tools, accommodation or workwear.

•

The issues of voluntariness are critical – it means that, regardless of the full outcome of the
audit, if any such threat is identified, a given supplier is subject to an immediate investigation
procedure, with the audit findings being assessed as negative.

INCREASING AWARENESS
LPP has developed staff training in accordance with external expert auditors, which includes
information on how to counteract forced labour. The training is being rolled out to all
employees in LPP's audit department and the office in Bangladesh who will be required to
complete the training this year.

BOARD APPROVAL
This slavery and human trafficking statement for the financial year ending [●] 2017 has been approved
by the board of directors of LPP SA on behalf of LPP SA and all members of the LPP Group, in accordance
with section 54 of the Modern Slavery Act 2015.
PRZEMYSŁAW LUTKIEWICZ
VICE-PRESIDENT OF THE MANAGEMENT BOARD LPP SA

August 2017

