MODERN SLAVERY STATEMENT
2017

This statement concerns all companies belonging to the LPP Group, further referred to as LPP.

INTRODUCTION
While developing our business, we become an organisation that
is more and more mature and conscious. We also want
to be a reliable and responsible partner for those around us.

The world of LPP in numbers and actions
LPP Group: a Polish company with global aspirations
We are a Polish company dealing in the design, production and distribution of clothing. Our sales
network covers the whole of Poland, as well as the countries of Central, Eastern and Western Europe,
the Balkans and the Middle East. Millions of our customers visiting stores buy the clothing, accessories
and shoes of ﬁve popular brands: Reserved, Cropp, House, Mohito and Sinsay.


25+ years of experience in the industry



Over 25,000 jobs



170 million items of clothing sold each year



over PLN 360 million – e-commerce revenues in 2017



1.001 million m2 – the total area of all the stores of the LPP Group



+ 1,700 stores in 20 countries on 3 continents

Openness, diversity, responsibility for our shared development and mutual respect create
our company’s unique culture. Yet, the most important foundation of our work is freedom.

We fully, completely and unconditionally oppose any form of forced labour.
This objection is made known along with the company’s values and is an intrinsic part of our DNA.
In this document, you will ﬁnd information on actions we take to counteract modern slavery.

LPP STRATEGY
We are a company dealing with the design and distribution of clothing. Our sales network covers the
whole of Poland, as well as the countries of Central, Eastern and Western Europe, the Balkans, and the
Middle East. To the millions of customers visiting the showrooms and shops on-line, we oﬀer the
clothing, accessories and footwear of ﬁve popular brands: Reserved, House, Cropp, Mohito and Sinsay.
LPP has a local representative unit in every country where its products are available. The foreign LPP
units are managed by professionals from the fashion industry who successfully run businesses in their
countries.
Our designers, graphic designers and technologists prepare each season collections of LPP brands,
taking into account the latest fashion trends. The LPP philosophy is think locally and act globally,
therefore, building our business, we adjust the oﬀer of individual brands to customers in diﬀerent
countries.
We do not have our own production facilities – the execution of a collection, as in the case of our global
competitors, is commissioned to outside companies in Poland, as well as in other countries in Europe
and Asia. We invest in both the expansion of the sales network in the countries where our brands are
already known, as well as in new prospective markets. Currently, we are focussing primarily on
strengthening the visibility of our ﬂagship brand, Reserved, in Europe.
At the same time, we are investing in modern sales channels and their mutual integration, that is,
omnichannel. Soon, our on-line shops will operate in all markets where we have our own physical
network. We are aware of the importance of e-commerce in the apparel industry in which we see a
great potential for further development. Thanks to signiﬁcant investments, our Internet sales are
growing at a pace of 100 percent a year.
In implementing our strategy we also want to ensure that our growth is stable, balanced and consistent
with the principles of socially responsible business.

The companies of the LPP Group and the scope of their activity
The LPP Capital Group consists of:
−
−
−

LPP SA as the parent company,
4 dependent domestic companies,
20 dependent foreign companies.

LPP SA deals with the design and distribution of clothing in Poland and in Central, Eastern and Western
Europe, the Balkans and the Middle East. Foreign companies included in the Group are entities dealing
in the distribution of goods under the Reserved, Cropp, House, Mohito and Sinsay brands outside
of Poland.
List of companies included in the LPP Capital Group
No.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
No.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.

Name of company
LPP SA
LPP Retail Sp. z o.o.
DP&SL Sp. z o.o.
IL&DL Sp. z o.o.
AMUR Sp. z o.o.
Foreign subsidiaries:
LPP Estonia OU
LPP Czech Republic SRO
LPP Hungary KFT
LPP Latvia LTD
LPP Lithuania UAB
LPP Ukraina AT
RE Trading OOO
LPP Romania Fashion SRL
LPP Bulgaria EOOD
LPP Slovakia SRO
LPP Fashion Bulgaria EOOD
Gothals LTD
LPP Croatia DOO
LPP Deutschland
GmbH

Seated in
Gdańsk, Poland
Gdańsk, Poland
Gdańsk, Poland
Gdańsk, Poland
Gdańsk, Poland

19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.

IPMS Management Services FZE
LPP Reserved UK LTD
LLC Re Development
LLC Re Street
LPP Reserved doo Beograd
P&L Marketing & Advertising Agency SAL

Ras Al Khaimah, UAE
Altrincham, UK
Moscow, Russia
Moscow, Russia
Belgrade, Serbia
Beirut, Lebanon

Tallinn, Estonia
Prague, Czech Republic
Budapest, Hungary
Riga, Latvia
Vilnius, Lithuania
Przemyślany, Ukraine
Moscow, Russia
Bucharest, Romania
Soﬁa, Bulgaria
Banská Bystrica, Slovakia
Soﬁa, Bulgaria
Nicosia, Cyprus
Zagreb, Croatia
Hamburg, Germany

OUR POLICIES AND COMMITMENTS
In 2017, LPP adopted the Sustainable Development Strategy for the years 2017-2019, which makes it
clear that the control of the supply chain and care for the rights of the staﬀ of LPP and our suppliers are
key priorities for LPP. In May 2018, we published the ﬁrst integrated report of LPP SA, comprising a
whole set of information on the company’s non-ﬁnancial activities.
Examples of steps we are taking to mitigate the modern slavery and forced labour risks identiﬁed in our
Sustainable Development Strategy 2017-2019:


Introduction line of an assortment made from sustainable sources (e.g. organic cotton, recycled
materials, etc.).



Continuously raising standards of ﬁre safety and ﬁre protection in LPP manufacturing plants.



Conducting factory audits in Bangladesh to ensure our suppliers comply with LPP's Code of
Conduct, including timely payment of wages and overtime and not employing minors.



Start working with new suppliers in Bangladesh, provided they are covered by an Accord audit.



Joining an international organization supporting supply chain control globally.



Implement a separate code of conduct for sewing suppliers for LPP in Poland.



Acceptance of the Code of Ethics along with Whistleblowing.



Establishment of ethics ombudsman skills, phone / mail box reporting irregularities.



Educational campaign among employees of LPP SA on Code of Ethics.



Ethics training for managers on anti-corruption and abuse.



Adopt and implement a sustainable development strategy.



Sustainable development meeting for managers with presentation of the progress of the
strategy.

LPP MORE. LPP Sustainable Development Strategy for the years 2017–2019
In 2017, we adopted the LPP Sustainable Development Strategy for the years
2017–2019, which is built on 4 pillars:
1. MORE SAFE. Our product: covers our practices related to the design
of clothes and accessories, with the way they are designed and manufactured.
2. MORE CARE. Our employees: includes our practices related to relations
with employees, including potential and former employees.

3. MORE MINDFUL. Our environment: includes our practices related ﬁrst
to consumer education, and secondly to the fashion industry in its broadest
sense, including designers and inﬂuencers. Thirdly, it includes our presence
in the local community in the places where our branches and stores are.
4. MORE ETHICAL. Our principles: includes our management practices
and how we approach business.

CODE OF CONDUCT
We have written down our values and rules in the form
of the Code of Conduct to be received by all our suppliers.

We outsource the manufacturing of LPP brand clothes to factories located in Asian countries and in
Europe, including Poland. Our Code of Conduct sets out the requirements which LPP's suppliers must
meet, as well as the values and standards we expect to be observed. It is also used to verify whether
these rules are observed in our suppliers’ day-to-day business practice. The Code of Conduct
incorporates the key provisions of the convention of the International Labour Organisation and the
Universal Declaration of Human Rights as well as recommendations of international social organisations
monitoring working conditions in the textile industry.
The Code of Conduct covers the following most important issues:
 wage policy and formal employment requirements
 unconditional ban to employ children and regulations governing employment of youth
workers
 voluntariness of work
 freedom of association
 equal treatment of all workers irrespective of sex, age, disability, origin, race, marital status,
sexual orientation, political beliefs, membership (or non-membership) in organisations or
caste or religious aﬃliation

 health and work safety standards
 suppliers’ environmental duties.
For us, veriﬁcation of observance of the Code of Conduct is a key element. We reserve the right to carry
out unannounced audits in all factories we cooperate with.
Documents regulating issues of cooperation with suppliers:


Code of Conduct for suppliers,



LPP Quality Guidebook,



Sustainable Development Strategy for LPP – LPP MORE.

AUDITS
We are proud of what we have achieved so far both in terms
of improving working conditions in factories manufacturing
our clothes and in the very attitude of our company to the control
of the supply chain. LPP is the only company in Central and
Eastern Europe, which has been engaged in the process of changes
to such an extent and that is why I believe we will be followed
by other fashion companies.
- Marek Piechocki
President of the Management Board of LPP S.A.

The Code of Conduct by itself is not enough; as set out above, it is also necessary for us to support
our suppliers in implementing the Code of Conduct and to ensure that our suppliers comply with
its provisions. LPP applies three veriﬁcation methods – our internal structures including the three units
discussed below, external specialists with expertise in social issues and, in terms of safety, cooperation
with an international association of textile companies.
Three units formed in recent years within LPP’s structure are engaged, on a regular basis, in the control
of working conditions at our suppliers’ factories:



the Audit Department operating in our head oﬃce is responsible for developing standards and
requirements for suppliers and for their eﬀective veriﬁcation



LPP’s representative oﬃce in Dhaka, the capital city of Bangladesh, is responsible, amongst
other things, for auditing factories to which we outsource our production and



the Communications and Sustainable Development Department deals with setting
key directions of the company’s CSR policy and communicating the results of actions in this area
to the public.

Furthermore, in the factory auditing process, we are given support by renowned professional external
companies specialising in such activities. At present, we are working with SGS, an international audit
company, covering the assessment of risks relating to the observance of LPP’s Code of Conduct by
factories to which we outsource the production of our collections.
1,118 – the number of factories inspected by LPP for safety at work, working conditions, and observance
of human rights in 2017.

Made in Poland
Since 2016, production for our brands in Poland has grown hugely. We are planning to commission
domestic plants to produce up to 5 million items of clothing per year. However, today we are probably
the largest customer in the industry. In our country, we cooperate with 72 entities employing a total of
1,000 people. Due to the ever-changing trends and the shorter time in which we provide our customers
with ‘must have’ models, the development of cooperation with Polish suppliers is very important to us.
We are constantly looking for new contractors in the country, because our strategy assumes that the
percentage of LPP orders in Poland will increase dramatically in the coming years. To this end, in 2017,
a new position was created in the purchasing department – Coordinator for Polish production.


Over 4.2 million items of clothing and accessories were produced in Poland in 2017.



72 production partners in Poland, employing over 1,000 employees



11.2% of the total Mohito collection is produced in Poland.

LPP’s activity as part of the BANGLADESH ACCORD
We joined the Accord on Fire and Building Safety in Bangladesh in 2013. This is an international
agreement signed by global clothing companies which is aimed at verifying and improving the condition

of ﬁre safety equipment, power supply installations and the structures of factory buildings. It therefore
focuses on issues closely related to the safety of people employed in the clothing industry in Bangladesh.
When developing a remediation plan for a given factory, those members of Accord which are the key
customers of that factory have responsibility for supervising the implementation the remediation plan.
The representatives of LPP also take part in that process in the factories for which LPP is the biggest
client. Under the strict control of ACCORD there are 94 factories in which the production of our brands’
clothing takes place, including 22 entities for which the company is the main customer. In 2017, we
ended cooperation with two suppliers that did not meet our requirements.
In January 2018 LPP joined Transition ACCORD. The legally-binding document goes into eﬀect when the
original agreement expires in May, and extends the Accord’s protections until 31 May 2021.

How we control work conditions

GRIEVANCE MECHANISM IN ACCORD

Apart from controlling health and work safety conditions, an important aspect of the activity of the
Bangladesh Accord is also the know-how support of factories’ owners and the education of ordinary
workers in respect of health and work safety and their rights. The factories for which LPP is a key client
participate in educational projects. The Bangladesh Accord provides for a grievance mechanism which
is more and more often applied by workers. In cases where issues involving forced labour are raised,
companies cooperating with a given factory are notiﬁed immediately.

64 plants, or 72,000 employees currently producing for LPP participate in the training
programme, which is intended to ensure employee education in the ﬁeld of health and safety,
to establish permanent safety committees and to implement a mechanism for reporting violations.

SOCIAL AUDITS
On a regular basis, we carry out unannounced audits covering social issues. These audits may be carried
out by our internal audit department or by SGS, an international audit company, on LPP's behalf.
Veriﬁcation is based on documentation, factory inspections and interviews with workers. Information
on any defaults and threats is given by SGS auditors forthwith to LPP. Based on information received
and following a meeting with a factory owner, LPP makes a decision, if need be, to implement
a corrective action plan in that factory. The progress in executing the corrective action plan is veriﬁed
on a regular basis. In case of identifying risk in critical areas such as voluntariness of work, the audit
department will take, together with the Management Board of LPP, individual decisions on further
cooperation with the supplier. We focus on executing remediation actions together with our business
partners whenever possible. Each case is analysed individually. The ﬁrst series of audits will
was completed in 2017. Any further audits and actions will follow depending on their results. We
consider this project as the next natural step to secure transparency of our supply chain.

IMPORTANT


100% of factories manufacturing clothes for LPP in Bangladesh are covered by the Bangladesh
Accord.



In total, in the years 2013-2017, there were 6,500 audits carried out at the factories of LPP
suppliers.



Audits involve veriﬁcation of all aspects of voluntariness of work.



During audits, auditors talk with chosen workers, with anonymity assured.



One of the criteria for auditing voluntariness of work is veriﬁcation of whether workers have
been deprived of documents or charged for tools, accommodation or workwear.



The issues of voluntariness are critical – it means that, regardless of the full outcome of the
audit, if any such threat is identiﬁed, a given supplier is subject to an immediate investigation
procedure, with the audit ﬁndings being assessed as negative.

INCREASING AWARENESS
LPP has developed staﬀ training in accordance with external expert auditors, which includes information
on how to counteract forced labour. The training is being rolled out to all employees in LPP's audit
department and the oﬃce in Bangladesh who will be required to complete the training this year.

CONTROL OF THE LPP SUPPLY CHAIN: KEY ACTIVITIES AND PLANS
2013
‒

Accession of LPP to the ACCORD Agreement (The Bangladesh Accord
on Fire and Building Safety) – active, permanent membership in the work of the Agreement

‒

Voluntary donation to the victims and families of the victims of the collapse
at the Rana Plaza complex in Bangladesh

2014–2016
‒

Developing, publishing and implementing the Code of Conduct

‒

Establishment of the LPP Audit Department

‒

Establishment of the Communication and Sustainability Department

‒

Starting the operation of the LPP facility in Dhaka, the capital of Bangladesh
(The tasks of the facility include, among others, auditing factories.)

‒

Regular cooperation within ACCORD – reporting and undertaking recommended actions

2017
‒

Cooperation with SGS – assessment of risks of violations of the Code of Conduct in Bangladesh

‒

Completion of a series of dialogue activities (questionnaires, interviews, panel) preceding
the adoption of the Sustainable Development Strategy

‒

Adoption of the Sustainable Development Strategy by the Management Board of LPP: LPP MORE

Since 2018
‒

Reporting non-ﬁnancial data (including on control in the supply chain) according
to the international GRI Standards standard

BOARD APPROVAL
This slavery and human traﬃcking statement for the ﬁnancial year ending 2017 has been approved
by the board of directors of LPP SA on behalf of LPP SA and all members of the LPP Group, in accordance
with section 54 of the Modern Slavery Act 2015.
PRZEMYSŁAW LUTKIEWICZ
VICE-PRESIDENT OF THE MANAGEMENT BOARD

June 2018

