Policy on Modern Slavery
comprising Forced Labor and Human Trafficking

Overview
Modern Slavery is an umbrella term. For adidas it encompasses the risks posed by forced labor,
prison labor, indentured labor, bonded labor, debt servitude, state imposed forced labor and human
trafficking, where coercion, threats or deception are used to intimidate, penalize or deceive workers,
thereby creating situations of involuntary work and exploitation. Modern Slavery may also be
associated with the worst forms of child labor.
Forced labor, child labor, risks associated with migrant labor and the trafficking in persons, and other
slavery-like practices, are issues which we have addressed in the past and continue to assess and
address through our robust social assurance and labor monitoring programs, which were founded at
the end of 1990s. Our focus continues to be on ensuring fair, safe and healthy working conditions for
the workers who make our products in alignment with international standards and norms.
We treat forced labor, human trafficking and slavery as zero-tolerance issues. Business relationships
can be impacted if such issues are found and can lead to enforcement action, warning letters and, if
timely remedies are not offered, to termination.

Supply Chain
Our supply chain includes transforming natural and synthetic materials into end-user products, such
as garments, footwear or accessories. We have a global and multi-layered supply chain, with different
types of business partners. The different supplier categories can be found under types of suppliers on
our corporate website. As a company, we also have non-trade based procurement, where we contract
third parties for the supply of goods and services to support our general business operations around
the world.

Policies
Our highest level of policy commitment on human rights is our Labor Rights Charter which
demonstrates our commitment to the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, owned
and approved by the CEO. The Labor Charter applies to all our business activities and operations,
including trade and non-trade procurement.
Our trade-related business partners are contractually bound by our Workplace Standards developed
around the United Nations conventions on human and labor rights. As a founding and accredited
member of the Fair Labor Association (FLA) these standards also comply with the FLA’s Principles of
Fair Labor and Responsible Sourcing.
The general principles in our Workplace Standards are explained through our supporting
Employment, Health & Safety and Environmental Guidelines, which reference international law,
norms and industry best practice and offer advice to business partners on ways to prevent and
mitigate impacts on human rights, human trafficking and slavery. These are reviewed regularly with
the most recent update in 2017 to our migrant labor guidelines with the aim of ensuring that workers
do not pay recruitment fees for securing their employment.

In accordance with our Workplace Standards, business partners must not use forced labor, whether
in the form of prison labor, indentured labor, bonded labor or otherwise. No employee may be
compelled to work through force or intimidation of any form, or as a means of political coercion or as
punishment for holding or expressing political views. The Workplace Standards include a specific
clause which reads:
“adidas is committed to respecting human rights and will refrain from any activity, or entering into relations with any
entity, which supports, solicits or encourages others to abuse human rights. We expect our business partners to do the
same, and where there is any perceived risk of a violation of human rights to duly notify us of this and of the steps
being taken to avoid or mitigate such a breach and, where this is not possible, for the business partner to provide for
the remediation of the adverse human rights impact where they have caused or contributed to this. For the purposes of
these Workplace Standards, human rights are a set of rights which recognize the inherent dignity, freedom and
equality of all human beings, as expressed in the United Nation’s International Bill of Human Rights and in the
International Labor Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work.”

To support our commitment to the fair treatment of the workers who make our products, including
reducing pressures on working hours and ensuring the full and timely payment of wages, we have
embedded within our business processes a number of responsible sourcing and purchasing practices
including:
1. Costing policies that acknowledge the time taken and cost of labor to produce an item- i.e.
Standard Minute Values
2. Buy Ready policy that avoids last minute changes in the development process
3. Effective forecasting systems enabling suppliers to plan effectively
4. Systematic dialogue with suppliers on their capacity that enables level loading during peak
months
5. Strategic supplier programs developed for long-term business relationships. For our strategic
partners, who account for more than 90% of global production, we have established social and
environmental KPIs that assess the effectiveness of our suppliers’ management systems to
protect labor rights, worker safety and the environment
For external business partners, such as licensees, we have developed a Responsible Sourcing
Guideline that sets out our expectations.

Due Diligence Processes
We have developed a due diligence approach that targets those high-risk locations, processes or
activities that require the closest attention and where we can apply influence to mitigate or remediate
issues, where they occur.
Our Employment Guidelines describe what constitutes non-compliances or bad practices and how
these should be remedied, and provides examples of best practice and case studies. If serious
breaches of the Workplace Standards are identified in a new supplier, they are not authorized to begin
manufacturing of adidas products until they have demonstrated comprehensive and sustainable
remediation of the issues. If evidence is found of human trafficking, slavery-like practices or child
labor at a prospective new supplier, they will be disqualified and the findings shared with relevant
government agencies for their follow-up.
For our direct supply chain, where our monitoring staff identify specific non-compliance issues,
including forced labor, suppliers develop corrective action plans to address them in a sustainable
manner within a set period which are closely monitored by our team through follow up audits and
progress is recorded in the Fair Factories Clearinghouse database.

We recognize that risks associated with modern slavery are potentially prominent in the upstream
supply chain and we are therefore focused on targeted modern slavery trainings and capacity building
programs for our Tier 2 suppliers thereby influencing ethical employment practices and providing
them with the guidance to identify and remedy unscrupulous employment practices. We have also
conduct more comprehensive assessments of our Tier 3 raw materials suppliers, to identify and
address risks of modern slavery.

Risk Assessment
Risks are identified and managed through multiple tools and processes which can be found in the
Risk Mapping section of our Supply Chain Approach page on our corporate website.
In 2016 we completed a risk-based mapping of our extended supply chain, i.e. those tiers that fall
outside the mainstream coverage of our social compliance program and launched our modern slavery
outreach program. We have publicly disclosed our due-diligence process and priority areas for
engagement as part of this outreach program.
Additional in-depth assessments may be warranted depending on a new country we plan to source
from, as took place prior to production commencing in Myanmar. A 2-year focused review was
conducted to evaluate human rights and socio-political issues and risks and resulted in the adoption
of new tools and approaches to prevent harm to rights-holders. Risks of modern slavery and other
adverse human rights impacts have also resulted in the disqualification of certain countries, for
example North Korea and Uzbekistan, as sourcing locations.
For new supplier relationships, we have a well-developed pre-screening risk assessment tool which
we call Initial Assessments (IAs) through which we evaluate prospective suppliers against a set of
Zero Tolerance Issues and Threshold Issues. Zero tolerance includes prison labor, serious, lifethreatening health and safety conditions and repeated or systematic abuse. Threshold compliance
issues include serious employment issues, serious health, safety or environmental issues and any
combination of the two.
Compliance Monitoring (CM) – key industry risks such as child labor, excessive hours, forced labor,
freedom of association, health and safety, and women’s rights are already deeply embedded in our
monitoring program, which seeks to uphold our Workplace Standards and supporting policies and
guidelines.
Our risk assessment cuts across all tiers of our supply chain and are carried out on a continuous
basis relying on stakeholder engagement to inform our risk evaluation ranging from tailored
engagements with specific stakeholder groups, with the investor community, through worker
interviews, engagement with government agencies on human rights topics or responding to changing
regulatory frameworks. These are all material considerations in our risk assessments.

Measurement and Performance Standards
Internal and external audits are conducted at our suppliers’ factories to ensure they comply with our
Workplace Standards. In addition to our own monitoring activities, we value unannounced
assessments by independent third parties to demonstrate the credibility of and provide verified
information about our program to stakeholders. As a founding and accredited member of the FLA we
are subject to external unannounced assessments by independent monitors, participation in the FLA
third-party complaint system and public reporting.
We require our strategic suppliers who make 90% of our product to develop rolling three-year Social
Compliance Plans which are linked to formal Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) covering six primary
areas:
1.

management commitment & responsiveness

2.

management systems

3.

labor & industrial relations

4.

compliance training for workers & management

5.

transparency in communication & reporting

6.

compliance performance

These assess the effectiveness of our suppliers’ management systems to protect labor rights, worker
safety and the environment. Socially compliant suppliers are incentivized in the form of increased
order volumes.
For our licensee partners and agents that manage our indirect supply chain, we use a score card that
evaluates and scores a business entities performance in applying our Workplace Standards and
associated guidelines.
For our modern slavery outreach program, we have clearly defined near term priorities including
targeted modern slavery capacity building for our Tier 2 suppliers and developing collaborative
models to address slavery like practices at the Tier 3 raw material sources. We also use outside
benchmarks, managed by KnowTheChain and the Responsible Sourcing Network to track our
performance in relation to our industry sector and the cotton supply chain, respectively.
Individuals, worker representatives and worker rights organizations, as well as other civil society
groups, can access adidas’ Third-Party Complaint Process, as well as the independently managed
FLA Third Party Complaint Process or the OECD’s Contact Point complaint mechanism, to bring
issues related to the breach human rights directly to our attention. Additionally, workers in our supply
chain have access to smart phone application based systems to anonymously lodge complaints and
suggestions at manufacturing sites in real time.

Training & Capacity Building
As part of our continuous efforts to achieve effective and sustainable practices within the supply chain,
we have initiated a system of multi-level and cross-functional training and capacity building sessions
with our global supplier network. See the Training section on our Supply Chain Approach page for
further information.
All new employees are given induction training to familiarize them with adidas policies and
procedures, including our Workplace Standards. Focused ‘sustainability and modern slavery’ sessions
are delivered at each corporate induction day at our key global offices. Our global legal teams have
received formal briefings on the application of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human
Rights and the corresponding human rights requirements detailed in the OECD Guidelines for MNCs,
as well as commitments to identifying and addressing the risks of modern slavery in our business.
Legal officers in the United States and United Kingdom are responsible for ensuring compliance with
disclosure requirements under the relevant modern slavery and human trafficking legislation.
We have designed targeted modern slavery training modules in partnership with United Nations
agencies and disseminated these throughout our Tier 2 supplier network in hot spot countries (i.e.
countries identified as high risk for slavery practices]. Our strategy involves training selected Social &
Environmental Affairs staff who manages our day-to-day labor monitoring program, to become
modern slavery experts. This complements their many years of experience in investigating forced
labor and migrant labor cases in the supply chain.

