All Access Apparel, Inc.
California Transparency in Supply Chains Act of 2010 (SB 657) Disclosure
Statement
On January 1, 2012, Senate Bill 657, the California Transparency in Supply Chains
Act of 2010, goes into effect. The Bill was signed into law by then Governor Arnold
Schwarzenegger in 2010, and requires the state’s retailers and manufacturers “to
develop, maintain and implement policies related to their compliance with federal
and state law regarding the eradication of slavery and human trafficking from their
supply chain.”
All Access Apparel, Inc. enforces a “Code of Conduct” on our suppliers, with
frequent re-certifications that require Ethical and Legal behavior in the conduct of
their business. Each Supplier must sign the “Code of Conduct” document, pledging
to adhere to our requirements. Any Supplier found to be in violation is subject to
disciplinary action, including termination of our relationship.
California Transparency in Supply Chains Act of 2010 (SB 657) specifically requires
the following five disclosures:
1.
Does the company verify its product supply chains to evaluate and address
risks of human trafficking and slave labor, and is the verification done by a third
party?
All Access Apparel participates in audits of suppliers, some performed by agents of
our retail customers, and some performed by independent third party auditors
engaged by the company. Compliance with our “Code of Conduct” is central to the
audit process, including Employment Practices, such as the fair and equitable
treatment of employees. The Code of Conduct specifically addresses voluntary
employment, no child labor, no prison or forced labor, no discrimination, as well as
the right to free association, proper wage and benefits, reasonable working hours,
women’s rights and a healthy and safe workplace.
2.
Does the company perform audits to evaluate supplier compliance with
company standards for human trafficking and slavery in supply chains, and is the
verification an independent, unannounced audit?
All Access Apparel supplies many of the largest retailers in the United States, most

of whom require “Certified Factories” be used for the production of the product
they purchase. To be a certified factory, the supplier must pass a rigorous
inspection of their facility and all of their employees to insure compliance with
standards that include Health and Safety, Employment Practices, and Legal
operations. Once certified, factories are routinely re-inspected by independent firms
at varying frequencies, and are often unannounced.
3.
Does the company obtain certifications from its direct suppliers that
materials incorporated into its products comply with the laws regarding slavery and
human trafficking of the country in which they are doing business?
The All Access Apparel Code of Conduct document currently serves as the factory
certification, unless they are submitting documents for payment under a letter of
credit, in which case a specific certification is required for payment. Beginning
January 2012, the company will require a specific certification be submitted with
each invoice, this will be an additional measure of compliance beyond the signed
Code of Conduct.
4.
Does the company maintain internal accountability standards and
procedures for employees or contractors failing to meet company standards
regarding slavery and trafficking?
All Access Apparel conducts disciplinary reviews of any violations of our Code of
Conduct and determines the proper course of action based on the infraction. To
date, we only have encountered one violation of our ethical standards, and that
situation resulted in termination of our business relationship.
5.
Does the company provide its employees and management with direct
responsibility for supply chain management, training on human trafficking and
slavery, particularly with respect to mitigating risks within the supply chain?
Our current effort is being expanded to include specific training on Slavery and
Human Trafficking, in addition to our current in depth review of our Code of
Conduct and past violations. Our relevant employee base will be expanded to
include our foreign national quality control inspectors who visit overseas factories on
a regular basis.

