CALIFORNIA TRANSPARENCY IN SUPPLY CHAINS ACT of
2010 DISCLOSURES
Brooks Sports, Inc.

1

The California Transparency in Supply Chains Act
Effective January 1, 2012, the California Transparency in Supply Chains Act of 2010 (SB 657) requires
companies that sell goods in California to make certain disclosures regarding their efforts to address
slavery and human trafficking within their supply chain.
Our Response to SB 657
This report describes our response to SB 657.
1. Verification of Product Supply Chains to Evaluate and Address Risks of Human Trafficking and
Slavery
Supplier Selection
As part of our product supplier selection process, Brooks Sports Inc. (Brooks) engages third party
auditors to conduct preliminary social compliance screenings to identify areas of risk and weaknesses
in social compliance policies and practices with prospective suppliers. We carefully screen third party
auditors and only use experienced and reputable monitoring firms that are – in our opinion – well
versed on international laws and standards as well as our internal standards. All direct production
sites must go through this screening and approval process before we contract with them to
manufacture our products.
Supplier Auditing – Tier 1
The primary focus of our efforts has been our tier 1 suppliers and licensee suppliers. Brooks currently
strives to audit all of our direct suppliers and licensee suppliers each year. Our verification and audit
program is designed to evaluate suppliers' compliance with the Brooks Code of Conduct through the
use of onsite assessments conducted by independent third party monitoring firms.
In assessing the Brooks supply chain, our third party auditors check factory policies and procedures
against the Brooks audit scope, which is based on the local law of manufacture, international labor
norms, industry best practices, and the Brooks Code of Conduct. The third party audits are generally
semi-announced with a three week audit window and include a physical inspection of the factory,
review of documents and procedures, and at least 15 and as many as 35 worker interviews (depending
on the size of the factory). During the worker interviews, the third party auditors ask specific
questions designed to assess forced labor and human trafficking risk. Our own Corporate Social
Responsibility team members shadow the audits when feasible.
We revised the scope of our audits in 2010 to include red flag indicators of the workers’ recruitment
processes to help identify any potential violations that may have occurred before workers arrived at
the supplier facility. Further, in 2013 we strengthened our audit scope by adding additional Code of
Conduct elements covering forced labor and imported workers. We also developed a country risk tool
to assess human trafficking risk in our supply chain, using data and research from the U.S. Department
of State, as well as other reputable sources. With suppliers that reside in countries with high levels of
2

migrant labor and human trafficking risk, we periodically conduct ‘unannounced’ third party audits to
assess risk and compliance.
Tier 2 Suppliers
Although we do not currently conduct third party monitoring at our tier 2 material and component
suppliers, we have informal relationships with many of these suppliers and our Sourcing and QA/QC
team regularly visit a number of their respective facilities. We also periodically screen our tier 2
suppliers for use of restricted substances and environmental management systems.
2. Supplier Certifications and Measurement Tools
Certification
We require our direct contract suppliers to meet or exceed the requirements in each area of the
Brooks Code of Conduct and maintain detailed records to substantiate compliance. Specifically, we
require certification that our contract suppliers:









Do not used forced labor of any kind
Do not use child labor
Prohibit physical, sexual, psychological, and verbal harassment and abuse
Provide a safe working environment
Allow workers freedom of association and collective bargaining
Pay wages for all time worked, at minimum wage or higher, and pays overtime
Treat overtime as consensual between employee and employer
Do not source cotton from Uzbekistan

Measurement Tools
Our Corporate Responsibility team is currently collaborating with the OIA Social Responsibility
Working Group and Sustainable Apparel Coalition to develop a set of social indicators to help brands
dive deeper into the product supply chain in order to better assess the human rights issues at the raw
materials level. The Higg Index was piloted in 2013 and is being used as a tool to help us understand
risks and opportunities across our product supply chain, including tier 2.
3. Internal Accountability Standards and Corrective Action Plans
Corrective Action Process
Our approach to human rights violations focuses on working with suppliers and licensees to remedy
issues as they arise and improve the overall workplace environment.
If and when a potential issue is discovered, our protocol requires the relevant supplier to produce a
corrective action plan outlining how they intend to resolve and prevent future occurrence of issues.
As appropriate, we may also conduct a follow-up third party assessment at the facility to check
progress on the corrective action plan and confirm resolution of any human rights issues. If the
3

supplier does not correct the violations we may terminate the relationship. Any potential human
rights violations are reported to our executive team, including our CEO and VP of Global Supply Chain.
Internal Accountability
Brooks has a dedicated team responsible for our Corporate Social Responsibility Program. The team
report directly to the Vice President of Global Supply Chain. The Brooks senior leadership team has a
direct involvement and accountability in supporting our commitment to human rights. In addition,
our Vice President of Global Supply Chain and Sourcing teams are briefed on the results of each social
audit.
4. Training and Awareness; Partners
Training
Our internal Corporate Responsibility personnel, our Sourcing team, and key members of our Senior
Leadership team have received training on human trafficking and slavery issues. In addition, our Code
of Conduct is distributed annually to all employees and to our direct product suppliers. The Code of
Conduct is translated into 22 languages in order to make the document accessible to more workers
within our supply chain.
Our Partners
We collaborate with a number of non-governmental organizations and trade associations to raise
awareness of social compliance issues, including the Outdoor Industry Association’s Social
Responsibility Working Group (we have been a member since 2010), and the Sustainable Apparel
Coalition (we became a member in 2014). We regularly monitor reports and follow the developments
of leaders in this field, such as the Fair Labor Association, ILO/IFC Better Work Program, and the
American Apparel and Footwear Association.
5. Conclusion
For more information regarding our Corporate Responsibility Program, please see our 2011/2012
Corporate Responsibility Report.

4

