 Columbia

Sportswear Companye

Transparency in Supply Chain Statement
Reporting for January through December 2016

The California Transparency in Supply Chains Act of 2010 (SB 657), and the United Kingdom
Modern Slavery Act of 2015 require certain businesses to provide disclosures concerning their
efforts to address the issues of slavery and human trafficking in their supply chains, to provide
consumers the ability to make better and more informed choices about the products they buy
and companies they support. Columbia Sportswear Company (CSC) believes modern slavery
and human trafficking are egregious issues; we are committed to doing due diligence within our
operations to minimize the risk of these issues in our supply chain.

Company Information

Founded in 1938 in Portland, Oregon, as a small, family-owned, regional hat distributor and
incorporated in 1961, CSC has grown to become a global leader in designing, sourcing,
marketing, and distributing outdoor and active lifestyle apparel, footwear, accessories, and
equipment. We design, source, market, and distribute outdoor and active lifestyle apparel,
footwear, accessories, and equipment for use in a wide range of outdoor and active lifestyle
activities under four primary brands: Columbia?, Mountain Hardwear?, and prAna?.

Sourcing and Manufacturing

CSC does not own or operate manufacturing facilities. Virtually all of our products are
manufactured to our specifications by contract manufacturers located outside the United
States. We seek to establish and maintain long-term relationships with key manufacturing
partners who share our values. We manage our supply chain from a global and regional
perspective and adjust as needed to changes in the global production environment, including
political risks, factory capacity, import limitations and costs, raw material costs, availability and
cost of labor, and transportation costs. Our apparel, accessories and equipment is
manufactured in 17 countries, with Vietnam and China accounting for approximately 65% of
our 2016 apparel, accessories and equipment production. Our footwear is manufactured in four
countries, with China and Vietnam accounting for substantially all of our 2016 footwear
production.

MOUNTAIN
Columbia Ht bee) os
In 2016, we maintained 11 manufacturing liaison offices in a total of eight Asian countries.
Personnel in these manufacturing liaison offices are direct employees of CSC and are
responsible for overseeing production at our contract manufacturers. We believe that having
employees physically located in these regions enhances our ability to monitor factories for
compliance with our policies, procedures and standards related to labor practices.

Slavery and Human Trafficking Standards

CSC is committed to ensuring that our products are manufactured in factories that operate with
fair and safe working conditions and sustainable business practices. To demonstrate this
responsibility, we value and strive for long term partnerships with factories to monitor and
ensure continuous improvement in alignment with our Standards of Manufacturing Practices
(SMP) (aka Code of Conduct). SMP includes a standard around forced labor, where all
suppliers are required to demonstrate that they do not use forced labor, whether in the form of
prison, indentured, slave, bonded, trafficked or any other form of compulsory labor. CSC
defines slavery and human trafficking as used by U.S. Department of State:

Human Trafficking: "any recruitment, harboring, transportation, provision, or obtaining
of a person for labor services, through the use of force, fraud, or coercion for the
purpose of subjection to involuntary servitude, peonage, debt bondage, or slavery."

Slavery - Involuntary Servitude: "a condition of servitude induced by means of (A) any
scheme, plan, or pattern intended to cause a person to believe that, if the person did
not enter into or continue in such condition, that person or another person would suffer
serious harm or physical restraint; or (B) the abuse or threatened abuse of the legal
process."

Risk Assessment and Internal Accountability

CSC assesses the risks related to our apparel, footwear, accessories, and equipment supply
chains at the country, vendor and factory levels. Risk assessment is performed internally by our
sourcing, legal and corporate responsibility teams on a regular basis.

We maintain and enforce internal accountability procedures for employees and contractors
regarding company standards around slavery and human trafficking. In the case of non-
compliance, we reserve the right to examine the specific situation and develop a best possible
strategy for resolution. If cases of non-compliance are not resolved within a timely manner, we
may terminate the business relationship. While we wish to aid in the resolution of incidences of
human trafficking and slavery within our supply chain, it is not possible to effectively solve the
issue of noncompliance without the cooperation of the supplier.

Columbia Hae Se os
Certification and Auditing

CSC requires all finished goods suppliers to sign a supply agreement, which specifies that a
vendor has read and understands the Columbia Sportswear Company Standards of
Manufacturing Practices Policy and shall ensure that its facilities and the facilities of its
subcontractors are maintained in accordance with the SMP Policy standards.

All finished goods suppliers are audited against our SMP and local law on an unannounced
basis, allowing us to see the factory conditions as they are on a typical day. Audits include
specific criteria around risks for forced labor or human trafficking including the employment of
vulnerable worker groups such as foreign migrants, interns and temporary workers and high
risk practices such as payment of recruitment fees or restrictions on freedom of movement.

New factories are audited and must meet our minimum standards before production can begin.
A re-audit will occur anywhere from 30 days to one year later, depending on the findings in the
previous audit. In 2016, 95% of our finished goods suppliers received at least one Social
Compliance audit. Audits are performed by a combination of internal CR staff as well as
Columbia Sportswear authorized third party audit firms. We work with the suppliers to develop
a Corrective Action Plan (CAP) to remediate issues identified during the audit.

Training

CSC regularly trains all internal supply chain management staff on slavery and human
trafficking, with a particular focus on mitigating risks, to ensure they are knowledgeable and
aware of the issues and concerns surrounding our supply chain. We also provide training on
our SMP during new employee orientation, and offer several trainings on our SMP throughout
the year for all CSC staff.

This statement covers January 1, 2016 to December 31, 2016, and has been approved by
Columbia Sportswear Company Limited.

Signature Yi


Name: Peter Michael Rauch
Title: Sole Director

MOUNTAIN
ae om

Columbia idle Hieae prAna
