Deckers Public Statement for SB 657
The California Transparency in Supply Chains Act of 2010 (SB 657) requires retail
sellers and manufacturers doing business in California to disclose, on their Internet
website, their efforts to eradicate slavery and human trafficking from their direct supply
chains for tangible goods offered for sale.
Deckers uses many tools and processes designed to ensure that the factories which
manufacture its products are fair and safe places for workers. Deckers includes its
Ethical Supply Chain (ESC) Supplier Code of Conduct as part of its Manufacturing
Agreement that it has with each factory. Deckers designed its ESC program in 2008 to
help ensure that workers in the factories that manufacture its products are treated
ethically and work in safe conditions, and to verify that its product supply chain,
including the factories which manufacture its products, conform to fair labor standards,
which of course preclude slavery and human trafficking. Deckers uses both an internal
audit team and accredited third party auditors to regularly assess its factories’
compliance with our fair labor standards. Deckers monitors labor practices as part of the
human rights portion of its factory audits (both announced and unannounced). Results
from the audit are tallied into a scorecard which is then reviewed with each supplier.
Deckers uses its ESC Supplier Code of Conduct to communicate its expectations about
how factories and their suppliers should conduct themselves as it relates to fair labor
standards, which includes ensuring that their use of materials incorporated into the
company’s products comply with laws of the country or countries in which they are
doing business. Deckers’ ESC Supplier Code of Conduct can be found on Deckers’
corporate website. In the event that an employee or contractor fails to meet Deckers’
internal accountability standards and procedures for fair labor standards, Deckers’
corrective action process is used to develop a remediation plan. Deckers also provides
ESC training to its supply chain partners at least once per year. Deckers employees are
informed about its ESC program and issues through its Code of Ethics which is sent to
all employees.

