Skechers USA, Inc.
UK Modern Slavery Act Statement

The UK Modern Slavery Act (the ?Act?) requires commercial organizations in any sector that have a total
turnover of above ?36 million, and that supply goods or services with at least part of their business in
the United Kingdom, to produce a slavery and human trafficking statement for each financial year. The
Act requires such businesses to produce a statement setting out steps it takes during the financial year
to ensure slavery and human trafficking are not taking place in any of its supply chains or any part of its
own business

Skechers products are manufactured at independent factories around the world. Skechers USA, Inc. is
committed to working only with vendors who conduct their businesses ethically and are socially
responsible. It is never acceptable for any Skechers products to be produced using forced or child labor.
Every factory producing Skechers products is required to comply with local labor laws, International
Labor Organization conventions and Skechers? standards regarding ethics and social responsibility.

Skechers USA, Inc. strives to ensure that all of its products are sourced, produced and delivered to our
customers in a manner that upholds international labor and human rights standards. In order to ensure
the absence of forced and child labor within its supply chain, Skechers USA, Inc. has undertaken the
following efforts:

Supply Chain Verification and Evaluation

It is a requirement for all manufacturers doing business with Skechers to comply with Skechers?
Guidelines for Responsible Factory Operation. Compliance with the Guidelines for Responsible Factory
Operation is mandatory and is required in order to do business with Skechers. Manufacturers are also
required to post these Guidelines, as well as all labor laws and other internal policies in the workplace,
in both English and the local language(s) where they may be seen by employees. Skechers further
requires that all manufacturers certify that they do not employ, in whole or in part, convict labor, forced
labor, indentured labor or child labor at any stage of the manufacturing process.

Skechers uses the manufacturer certifications as well as audits of all manufacturers? conformity with
these Guidelines in order to verify its product supply chains and to address and reduce risks of human
trafficking and slavery. Skechers does not use any third parties and performs this verification internally.

Auditing of Suppliers

Manufacturer factories are regularly audited by Skechers employees. Factories are audited for a
number of issues, chief among which is verification of the absence of forced or child labor. The
presence of forced or child labor would mean the immediate failure of the audit and the right for
Skechers to terminate any relationship with such manufacturer. These audits are done on both a
scheduled and an unannounced basis, and include interviews with the manufacturers? employees
themselves.

Skechers additionally audits its manufacturers for health and safety conditions and eco-friendly
initiatives in their factories. These additional items are audited on the basis of Footwear Distributors
and Retailers of America (FDRA) guidelines.
Certification of Materials Incorporated into Skechers Products

Skechers requires that all manufacturers certify that they do not employ, in whole or in part, convict
labor, forced labor, indentured labor or child labor at any stage of the manufacturing process.

Additionally, all potential vendors of materials used in the manufacture of Skechers products must
certify on their applications that they do not use underage, involuntary, prison, convict, slave,
indentured, bonded or other forced labor. All vendors must comply with FDRA guidelines, as well as all
applicable local and national laws. Failure to comply will result in Skechers? ability to terminate any
business relationship with such vendor.

Internal Accountability Standards and Procedures

Skechers maintains and enforces internal accountability procedures for employees, and contractors
regarding company standards in slavery and human trafficking. In the case of non-compliance with
company standards, including those regarding the use of underage, involuntary, prison, convict, slave,
indentured, bonded or other forced labor, Skechers may terminate the business relationship.

Training of Employees and Management

Skechers requires that all internal employees, whose job functions involve overseeing production and/or
auditing of manufacturers, as well as all manufacturers themselves, attend workshops held by the FDRA
twice a year. These FDRA workshops include the Overseas Labor Practice Workshop where some of the
most important issues related to footwear sustainability, social compliance and product safety are
discussed. Skechers additionally provides internal training to ensure that those employees whose job
functions involve overseeing production and/or auditing of manufacturers are knowledgeable and

aware of the most current issues and concerns regarding convict labor, forced labor, indentured labor,
child labor and human trafficking. Skechers makes materials available such that its employees have a
clear understanding regarding Skechers? policies on these issues.

Approval

This statement is made pursuant to section 54(1) of the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015 and constitutes our
Group's slavery and human trafficking statement for the financial year ending 31 December 2017. The
board of directors of the Company delegated approval of this statement on its behalf to the Board of
Directors of the Company via unanimous written consent of Board.

nn 2

Skechers USA Ltd.
David Weinberg
Director

 
