TOPSON DOWNS SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
While Topson Downs of California Inc. recognizes that there are diferent legal and cultural environments
in which factories operate throughout the world, our Code of Conduct sets forth the basic requirements
that all factories must meet in order to do business with us. This Code of Conduct is based on
internatonally accepted labor standards, including the United Natons Universal Declaraton of Human
Rights. Our Code provides the foundaton for our ongoing evaluaton of a factory's employment practces
and environmental compliance.
Under no circumstances is it acceptable for child, forced or trafcked labor to be used in the producton
of any Topson Downs product. We believe that no person should be subject to a situaton where basic
needs and fundamental rights are denied. Topson Downs' Code of Conduct explicitly states that forced
labor or child labor or involuntary labor of any kind is strictly prohibited.
In 2010, a law was passed in the state of California requiring companies to disclose what they are doing
to address human trafcking in their supply chains. This Act, known as SB657, seeks to "educate
consumers on how to purchase goods produced by companies that responsibly manage their supply
chains...to improve the lives of victms of slavery and human trafcking."
There are 5 main points of this Act outlined in bold below, with Topson Downs explanaton below of
what we are doing to address each of them.
1- Company engages in verifcaton of product supply chains to evaluate and address risks of human
trafcking and slavery. The disclosure shall specify if the verifcaton was not conducted by a third
party.
•

Topson Downs monitors nearly 100% of the garment factories that produce apparel for us.

•

We conduct both announced and unannounced audits to verify compliance with our Code of
Conduct, which includes prohibiton of forced labor and involuntary labor.

•

Our audits are conducted by our own team of Social Compliance Auditors and/or by UL-STR - an
internatonally accredited third-party auditng frm.

2- Company conducts audits of suppliers to evaluate supplier compliance with company standards for
trafcking and slavery in supply chins. The disclosure shall specify if the verifcaton was not an
independent, unannounced audit.
•

Topson Downs conducts both announced and unannounced audits in factories that produce our
apparel.

•

Our Code of Conduct states that factories must not use forced or involuntary labor of any kind.
Human trafcking and slavery fall under the categorizaton of "forced labor" and "involuntary
labor".

•

Our factories must allow Topson Downs and/or any of its representatves unrestricted access to
its facilites and to all relevant records at all tmes, whether or not notce is provided in advance.

3- Company requires direct suppliers to certfy that materials incorporated into the product comply
with laws regarding slavery and human trafcking of the country or countries in which they are doing
business.
•

Topson Downs requires that all factories producing our apparel shall operate in full compliance
with the laws of their countries, including those relatng to labor and worker health and safety.

4- Company maintains internal accountability standards and procedures for employees or contractors
failing to meet company standards regarding slavery and trafcking.
•

Failure of employees to abide by our Code of Conduct can result in correctve acton up to and
including terminaton of employment.

•

Failure of factories to abide to our Code of Conduct can result in correctve acton up to and
including the terminaton of business.

5- Company provides company employees and management, who have direct responsibility for supply
chain management, training on human trafcking and slavery, partcularly with respect to mitgatng
risks within the supply chains of products.
•

Topson Downs Social Compliance Director and Team work directly with factory management
and workers in the factories that we monitor.

•

Our Social Compliance Team is trained in how to identfy situatons that pose potental risks for
involuntary labor of any kind.

