5/17/2019

California Supply Chains Act - True Religion

USA ($USD)

Free Ground Shipping On Orders $150+

SIGN IN/ REGISTER 

FIND A STORE

NEW & LIMITED
DENIM
MENS
WOMENS
KIDS
SALE
MANCHESTER UNIT ED

Home / Account Details

2 0 1 2 C A L I F O R N I A T R A N S PA R E N C Y I N S U P P LY C H A I N S A C T
( S B 6 5 7 ) ( T H E "A C T " )
The Act, which became effective January 1, 2012, requires certain retail sellers and manufacturers to disclose their efforts to
eradicate slavery and human trafficking from their direct supply chains. It is intended to provide consumers with the means to
determine which companies have an active social responsibility program and thereafter to make conscientious purchasing
decisions.
The points outlined below highlight the Act's mandatory disclosures, followed by an explanation of how the company is
addressing each of them
https://www.truereligion.com/company-supply-chains-act.html

1/2

5/17/2019

California Supply Chains Act - True Religion

1. Veriﬁca on - The company con nues to develop monitoring systems to assess and ensure Associate’s compliance with the slavery and human traﬃcking
prohibi ons set forth in the Code through various means, including, but not limited to, independent, unannounced on-site third party veriﬁca on visits.
2. Audits - The company relies on independent third party vendors to conduct unannounced audits of Associates, which assist in the evalua on of Associates’
compliance with Company’s supply chain standards for traﬃcking and slavery.
3. Integrity of Components - By execu ng the Code, every Associate cer ﬁes that materials incorporated into goods and merchandise manufactured for the
Company comply with labor and traﬃcking laws, and with all other applicable laws, rules and regula ons of the respec ve country or countries in which they do
business.
4. Accountability - Associates must manifest their commitment to the implementa on of the Code’s stated an -slavery and human traﬃcking principles by
maintaining or establishing an appropriate management system (with adequate documenta on and record-keeping in place) to address compliance with these
principles and detec on and correc on of any non-compliance.
5. Training - In connec on with its commitment to enforce and uphold the principles set forth in the Code, the Company provides training on recognizing the
warning signs of human traﬃcking and slavery to those employees who have direct responsibility for supply chain management.

CONNECT WITH TRUE

CONTACT US

HELP

COMPANY

Order Status

About Us

1-844-TRU-RLGN (844-8787546)

Gift Card Balance

Careers

Monday - Friday: 5:00am 6:00pm PT

deals, the latest lookbooks, and top

Size Charts

Affiliates

trends.

International

California Supply

Orders

Chains Act

Enter Your Email

Be the first to find out about exclusive

JOIN

cs@truereligion.com
Live Chat

Shipping & Returns

Store Locator

FAQ

Give Us Feedback

True Concierge
2019 True Religion Brand Jeans. All Rights Reserved.

https://www.truereligion.com/company-supply-chains-act.html

Privacy Policy

Terms of Use

Returns Policy

Site Map

2/2

