Modern Slavery and Anti-Human Trafficking
Disclosure Statement
Beaconsfield Footwear was established in Lancashire in 1959 and has been making footwear ever
since. Having introduced the Hotter brand in the early 1990s, the company has grown to become
the UK’s biggest shoe maker making 1.8 million pairs of shoes each year. Our core values are our
passion for our products, our continuing drive for excellence in everything we do and our dedication
to exceeding our customers’ expectations. As a company, with a culture of honesty and
transparency, operating ethically is fundamental to our business. We are committed to treating all
people with dignity and respect and accordingly we fully recognise both our moral, and legal,
responsibility to preventing modern slavery in all its forms. We will not tolerate forced labour, the
exploitation of children or other vulnerable groups, fraudulent activity, deception, corruption, or any
other means of coercion or abuse of power in our business and through our supply chain in the UK
and internationally.
The following disclosure statement details the actions we are committed to taking in order to
identify, understand and address the risks of modern slavery and human trafficking. Significantly,
we will not only be compliant with all applicable laws and regulations, we will continue to set the
standard for ethical behaviour wherever we work. Moreover, we respect and support the
international principles of human rights, such as those detailed in the United Nation’s Declaration of
Human Rights1, the United Nations Global Compact Principles2, Women’s Empowerment
Principles3 and the UK Government’s Modern Slavery Act 20154. Our support for these fundamental
principles is embodied in our policies and conduct towards our employees, customers and
suppliers, together with the wider communities and countries in which we operate.
Hotter is the trading name of Beaconsfield Footwear Limited. The following disclosure statement is
made on behalf of Beaconsfield Footwear pursuant to Section 51 (1) of the Modern Slavery Act
2015 and constitutes our slavery and human trafficking statement. Beaconsfield Footwear is a
limited company registered in England and Wales.

1

United Nation’s Declaration of Human Rights http://www.un.org/en/universal-declaration-human-rights/
United Nation’s Global Compact Principles https://www.unglobalcompact.org/what-is-gc/mission/principles
The Women’s Empowerment Principles http://www.weprinciples.org/
4
UK Government’s Modern Slavery Act 2015 http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2015/30/contents/enacted
2
3

The UK Government Modern Slavery Act requires all companies of 36 million pounds
turnover, or more, to disclose annually, as a minimum, the following:
i.

The company’s structure, its business and supply chains

ii.

Its policies in relation to modern slavery and human trafficking

iii.

Its due diligence processes in relation to slavery and human trafficking in its business
and supply chains

iv.

Assessment and management procedures for identifying modern slavery and human
trafficking risks

v.

Performance indicators to measure the effectiveness of the company’s efforts in
ensuring modern slavery and human trafficking is not taking place

vi.

Training on modern slavery available to its staff and supply chain

About Us
Founded in 1959, Beaconsfield Footwear has been designing and manufacturing footwear
for over 50 years. We introduced the Hotter brand in the early 1990s and have gained a
reputation for designing and making stylish shoes with comfort built in. With our rich heritage
and commitment to innovation we have also established ourselves as a leading omnichannel retailer in UK and international markets. We sell our footwear through a network of
85 Hotter stores, nearly 200 Independent retailers across the UK and direct to customers via
our website and our 140 seater call centre. From our factory in Skelmersdale, Lancashire,
we make a pair of shoes every 20 seconds, making us the UK’s biggest shoe maker. We
work with a select group of quality partners 8 in the UK and 208 internationally who supply
components and products across our supply chain. These partners have been specially
selected because of their expertise and compliance performance. The primary suppliers
work under the supervision of our in country sourcing team.
Our Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Policy
We absolutely oppose modern slavery in all of its forms and are strongly committed to
preventing exploitation, or human trafficking, across any part of our business and supply
chains. Our Anti-Slavery policy embodies our commitment to acting ethically, and with
integrity, throughout our operations and to implementing effective governance systems to
prevent slavery and human trafficking in our supply chains. Moreover, our business ethics
and code of conduct outlines the rigorous standards of ethical behaviour we expect from our
suppliers. In addition, suppliers are required to demonstrate that they adhere to the highest
ethical standards through regular visits.

Fundamentally, the prevention, detection and reporting of modern slavery in any part of our
business or supply chains is the responsibility of all those working for us, or with us. Our
zero-tolerance approach to modern slavery is clearly communicated to all of our business
partners and reinforced as appropriate thereafter.

Due Diligence and Risk Assessment
We use a structured supply chain mapping program to ensure due diligence is firmly
embedded within our supply chain management process. As part of this program, we review
the supply chain for the coming season every six months to identify and mitigate risk.
Moreover, we always conduct pre-screening assessments of new suppliers. In order to
augment our existing due diligence processes in relation to modern slavery and human
trafficking, we have implemented the following internal governance procedures:


Identifying high risk supply chains and/or areas particularly susceptible to modern
slavery issues.



Engaging with all of our suppliers to ensure they share our commitment to acting with
integrity.



Conducting appropriate investigative and remedial actions if issues are identified.



Invoking sanctions against suppliers that fail to improve their performance in line with
our modern slavery policy.



Terminating business relationships with suppliers, or other offending parties, who
knowingly violate our modern slavery policy and refuse to collaborate with us in
implementing improvement plans.



Recognising the limitations of certain ethical auditing protocols and, where
appropriate, undertaking additional supplier visits and assessments.

An integral element of our due diligence and corporate governance processes is the
enhanced visibility afforded by our ongoing supply chain mapping project. This program now
in its third year is critical to creating transparency and supporting supply chain risk
management. Additionally, this constructive approach will foster collaborative engagement
with suppliers and promote a relationship of cooperation and transparency.

Training our Employees and Suppliers on Modern Slavery
We build internal awareness with all relevant staff through the twice-yearly Technical Forum,
presentations to The Board and to our key suppliers. We train key employees on wider
sustainability issues and align our efforts in tackling modern slavery with our broader
commitments to ethical business and sustainability

All of our tier one suppliers have signed our Modern Slavery Code of Conduct document and
we have provided clear guidance to ensure our suppliers understand the standards that
Hotter demands.
Monitoring Performance
The following graphic summarises the key areas of activity for assessing the effectiveness of
our efforts in preventing modern slavery. These will be developed into specific, measurable
key performance indicators (KPIs), thereby embedding the commitments outlined in this
disclosure statement.

Mapping our Tier 2/3
supply chain and
continue to develop a
supplier compliance
platform.

Regularly communicate our
Modern Slavery standards
to our supply base and
continuing our verification
programme.

Further developing the
company’s due diligence
processes to enable
transparent reports of ethical
practices,

18/19 Modern Slavery KPIs

Delivering an internal
awareness campaign
for our employees
regarding Modern
Slavery.

Providing full training for key
employees involved in
procurement, supply chain
and human resources
regarding Modern Slavery.

Reporting on the
effectiveness of our due
diligence and risk
assessment procedures
in ensuring Modern
Slavery is prevented.

