hotter

Modern Slavery and Anti-Human Trafficking
Disclosure Statement

Beaconsfield Footwear was established in Lancashire in 1959 and has been making footwear ever
since. Having introduced the Hotter brand in the early 1990s, the company has grown to be the
biggest shoe maker making 2 million pairs of shoes each year. Our core values are our
passion for our products, our continuing drive for excellence in everything we do and our dedication
to exceeding our customers? expectations. As a family company, with a culture of honesty and
transparency, operating ethically is fundamental to our business. We are committed to treating all
people with dignity and respect and accordingly we fully recognise both our moral, and legal,
responsibility to preventing modern slavery in all its forms. We will not tolerate forced labour, the
exploitation of children or other vulnerable groups, fraudulent activity, deception, corruption, or any
other means of coercion or abuse of power in our business and through our supply chain in the UK
and internationally.

The following disclosure statement details the actions we are committed to taking in order to
identify, understand and address the risks of modern slavery and human trafficking. Significantly,
we will not only be compliant with all applicable laws and regulations, we will continue to set the
standard for ethical behaviour wherever we work. Moreover, we respect and support the
international principles of human rights, such as those detailed in the United Nation?s Declaration of
Human Rights', the United Nations Global Compact Principles*, Women?s Empowerment
Principles? and the UK Government?s Modern Slavery Act 2015*. Our support for these fundamental
principles is embodied in our policies and conduct towards our employees, customers and
suppliers, together with the wider communities and countries in which we operate.

Hotter Comfort Concept and Hotter are the trading names of Beaconsfield Footwear Limited. The
following disclosure statement is made on behalf of Beaconsfield Footwear pursuant to Section 51
(1) of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and constitutes our slavery and human trafficking statement.

Beaconsfield Footwear is a limited company registered in England and Wales.

Sara Prowse
Chief Executive Officer
Beaconsfield Footwear Ltd.
March 2017

 

United Nation?s Declaration of Human Rights 

United Nation?s Global Compact Principles 
The Women?s Empowerment Principles 
UK Government?s Modern Slavery Act 2015 
notter

Modern Slavery and Anti-Human Trafficking
Disclosure Statement

The UK Government Modern Slavery Act requires all companies of ?36 million turnover, or
more, to disclose annually, as a minimum, the following:
i. The company?s structure, its scope of business and its supply chains
ii. Its policies in relation to modern slavery and human trafficking
Its due diligence processes in relation to slavery and human trafficking in its business
and supply chains
iv. Assessment and management procedures for identifying modern slavery and human
trafficking risks
v. Performance indicators to measure the effectiveness of the company?s efforts in
ensuring modern slavery and human trafficking is not taking place

vi. Training on modern slavery available to its staff and supply chain

About Us

Founded in 1959, Beaconsfield Footwear has been designing and manufacturing footwear
for over 50 years. We introduced the Hotter brand in the early 1990s and have gained a
reputation for designing and making stylish shoes with comfort built in. With our rich heritage
and commitment to innovation we have also established ourselves as a leading omni-
channel retailer in UK and international markets. We sell our footwear through a network of
nearly 80 Hotter stores across the UK and direct to customers via our website and our 140
seater call centre. From our factory in Skelmersdale, Lancashire, we make a pair of shoes
every 20 seconds, making us the biggest shoe maker. We work with a select group of
quality partners in the UK and internationally who supply components and services across
our supply chain. These partners have been specially selected because of their expertise
and work under the close supervision of our operational teams to meet our stringent

requirements for achieving true comfort, quality and style.

Our Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Policy

We absolutely oppose modern slavery in all of its forms and are strongly committed to
preventing exploitation, or human trafficking, across any part of our business and supply
chains. Our Anti-Slavery policy embodies our commitment to acting ethically, and with
integrity, throughout our operations and to implementing effective governance systems to
prevent slavery and human trafficking in our supply chains. Moreover, our business ethics

and code of conduct outlines the rigorous standards of ethical behaviour we expect from our
notter

Modern Slavery and Anti-Human Trafficking
Disclosure Statement

suppliers. In addition, suppliers are required to demonstrate that they adhere to the highest
ethical standards through routine assessment.

Fundamentally, the prevention, detection and reporting of modern slavery in any part of our
business or supply chains is the responsibility of all those working for us, or with us. Our
zero-tolerance approach to modern slavery is clearly communicated to all of our business

partners and reinforced as appropriate thereafter.

Due Diligence and Risk Assessment

Existing due diligence measures concerning ethical conduct are firmly embedded within our
procurement and supply chain management process. As part of our initiatives to identify and
mitigate risk, we undertake quarterly reviews of our existing suppliers. Moreover, we always
conduct pre-screening assessments of new suppliers. In order to augment our existing due
diligence processes in relation to modern slavery and human trafficking, we will implement
the following internal governance procedures at operational and senior management level:

Identifying high risk supply chains and/or areas particularly susceptible to modern
slavery issues.

Engaging with all of our suppliers to ensure they share our commitment to acting with
integrity.

Conducting appropriate investigative and remedial actions if issues are identified

Invoking sanctions against suppliers that fail to improve their performance in line with
our modern slavery policy.

Terminating business relationships with suppliers, or other offending parties, who
knowingly violate our modern slavery policy and refuse to collaborate with us in
implementing improvement plans.

Recognising the limitations of certain ethical auditing protocols and, where

appropriate, undertaking additional supplier visits and assessments.

An integral element of our due diligence and corporate governance processes will be the
enhanced visibility afforded by our ongoing supply chain mapping project. This project,
scheduled for completion in early 2017, will be critical in embedding transparency and

supporting supply chain risk management. Additionally, this constructive approach will foster
notter

Modern Slavery and Anti-Human Trafficking
Disclosure Statement

Lastly, we also commit to continually reviewing and enhancing our due diligence and risk

assessment processes on an annual basis.

Training our Employees and Suppliers on Modern Slavery

We are currently in the process of developing an internal training programme for key staff
involved in human supplier management in order to educate them on the risks of modern
slavery. This will be supplemented by an internal awareness campaign across our
organisation, including briefings and progress reports. Significantly, we also routinely train
key employees on wider sustainability issues. Furthermore, we will align our efforts in

tackling modern slavery with our broader commitments to ethical business and sustainability.

In 2017 we will make all of our tier one suppliers aware of our Modern Slavery and Anti-
Human Trafficking Disclosure Statement and provide clear guidance to ensure our suppliers
understand the standards that Hotter applies. In addition, we will also update our
procurement code of conduct to reflect our commitment to tackling modern slavery and
human trafficking.

Monitoring Performance

The following graphic summarises the key areas of activity for assessing the effectiveness of
our efforts in preventing modern slavery. These will be developed into specific, measurable
key performance indicators (KPIs) in early 2017, thereby embedding the commitments

outlined in this disclosure statement.

 

Position: Chief Executive Officer

Date: 16 March 2017
hotter

Modern Slavery and Anti-Human Trafficking
Disclosure Statement

  

Mapping our Tier 1 Communicating our Further developing the
supply chain and Modern Slavery company's due giligence
developing supplier Standards to our supply processes to enable
compliance platform oOase ond continuing our ?transparent reporting of
verification programme ethica! practices

16/17 Modern slavery KPIs

  

Delivering on internal Proviaing full training for Reporling on the

awareness campaign key emplouees involved effectiveness of Our due
for Our employees iN procurement, supply diligence and risk

regarding Modern chain and human assessment procedures
slavery resources regarding in ensuring Modern

Modern Slavery Slavery is orevented
