Modern Slavery Statement
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2018

Modern Slavery Statement
2018/19
Globally millions of people are working in appalling modern slavery conditions under dysfunctional business
structures. Where laws exist they are not always implemented, giving grace to a thriving black economy. As a
fast-growing brand, QUIZ is aware of the challenges posed by having a global, fast fashion supply chain and
conscious of modern slavery risks, taking place within manufacturing supply chains.
We are committed to ensuring our products are sourced and manufactured responsibly, making sure workers’ in
our supply chains are not exploited. The responsibility for meeting these expectations are led from the Board,
and is integral to our core values being driven through all departments. This is QUIZ Plc’s second annual Modern
Slavery Statement and has been published in accordance with section 54 of the Modern Slavery Act 2015.
Business Structure
QUIZ is a multi-channel fashion brand, selling apparel, footwear and accessories, targeted mainly at the 16-35year-old market. The core of QUIZ’s operations is conducted in Scotland, United Kingdom with a centralised
team in Glasgow. We were founded in 1993 and now employ more than 1,400 people. Globally we have over
300 outlets, consisting of owned stores, concessions, alongside international franchise and wholesale partners.
We sell into 23 countries, with a strong presence in the United Kingdom with 71 standalone stores, 147
concessions, 5 online partners and an online platform.
Our QUIZ private label is primarily sourced from 5 countries, key countries being China and the United Kingdom.
QUIZ does not own or operate any of its production facilities and are committed in mapping and verifying our
Tier 1 facilities, these are sites which cut, make, trim and store, by early 2019.

Our operations and logistics are

operated by two distribution centres in Scotland, United Kingdom.
Risk Assessment
Building long-term relationships with our suppliers has created a sustainable supply chain, allowing our fastfashion model to grow. This year QUIZ invested in developing these relations, with the introduction of an ethical
compliance department to support our suppliers to make certain two core priorities are reflected throughout the
supply chain.
QUIZ’s two core priorities:
•
•

Supply Chain Transparency
Lawful, respectful work environments

We have improved processes allowing transparency and traceability of supply chains to become achievable,
and that manageable and clear standards are met and maintained.
After reviewing potential areas of modern slavery risk across our business, the immediate risk areas within our
operations would be within the garment manufacturing supply chain and we are currently working with suppliers
in the Leicester area to ensure working conditions are appropriate. Over the next year we are committed to
developing our policies and investigations to address these risks globally.

Ethical Compliance Collaboration
Britain’s Modern Day Slavery Act sets an ambitious agenda for transparency, traceability and governance in
supply chains. We recognise that increasing congruence between the different stakeholders is vital to its
success.
Recognising collaboration is key in addressing industry wide systemic issues, in 2018 we became a member of
the Ethical Trading Initiative (ETI) to improve practices. The ETI is an alliance of companies, trade unions and
NGO’s that work together to promote the respect of workers’ rights around the world.
This strategic partnership will support collaborations with other brands, improving operations for the industry as a
whole. We expect our suppliers to follow the QUIZ Ethical Code of Practice, which adheres to the core principles
of the Ethical Trade Initiative Base Code. This sets worldwide standards on labour practices, protecting our own
workers, as well as those throughout our supply chain.
Through the ETI we have also joined a Leicester working group to address systemic issues in this region alongside
other brands who are manufacturing in the area.
Supply Chain, Auditing and Remediation
Our supply chain is currently divided into two separate areas
1. QUIZ branded label
2. Non-branded goods
Suppliers manufacturing Tier 1 processes of QUIZ branded label must be audited annually. In order to reduce
audit fatigue QUIZ accepts SMETA, or third-party audits from a limited number of recognised organisations as
long as they are independent and uploaded to SEDEX. Audits are not considered as a pass or fail. Areas of noncompliance against the QUIZ Ethical code of practice are remediated with the Ethical Compliance
Department. We recognise that some issues can take time to remediate, and recognise continuous
improvement. While audits are helpful we recognise they are not enough on their own to address modern
slavery risks and relates issues. We will be delivering further training with our global suppliers and factory workers
throughout 2019, to drive worker rights throughout our supply chain.
Suppliers for non-branded goods are required to confirm acceptance of QUIZ ethical standards, though we are
not currently able to verify if these standards are being upheld. We support their capacity in assisting the
agenda for better business, so that others in the sector can follow and benefit workers in their supply chain.
Training
Training on ethical compliance and modern slavery risks is mandatory for all buyers, extending this to QUIZ’s
warehouse workers. This year 172 employees attended our ‘Introduction into Ethical Trade’ and ‘Know Your
Rights’, training. This was utilised to gain vital feedback about the business from ground up operations,
highlighting areas of improvement. This will be extended to factory workers in our supply chain giving us an
opportunity to directly engage and become aware of specific issues.
One-to-one training with global suppliers has commenced which included 26 UK factory visits and remediation
support to prepare for audit. QUIZ has one employee and third-party support based in China, who will be
working closely with partners and their factories to develop improvement plans based on challenges faced by
individual factories.

Policies and compliance
We are in the process of improving our governance policies and developing our human rights due diligence. In 20182019 we will be developing policies in relations to Human Rights impacts, slavery and human trafficking,
whistleblowing, anti-bribery, sub-contracting, child labour, migrant workers, and homeworkers.
Ethical Compliance Commitments 2018-2019
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Collaborate with industry peers through the Leicester working group supporting collective change on worker
representation
Utilise ETI as our strategic partner to guide us in current best practices, keeping informed of current global
legislation and risks
Enhancing product traceability, to accurately identify locations where workers are engaged in our supply chain
Develop further policies in relation to human rights impacts and production processes
Further training to all global suppliers on modern slavery issues, worker and human rights
Ensure all Tier 1 factories have been audited annually
Increase the number of ethical compliance team members
Formation of a steering committee with representatives from across the business voicing concerns and agreeing
best strategies for implementation

QUIZ believes that business can be a force for good, and that we have a unique opportunity to change how
products are made, leading to a positive social impact. QUIZ suppliers must comply with this practice to ensure their
workforces, working conditions, management and production processes are not just legally compliant but are also
fair, responsible and sustainable. We are committed to preventing and addressing modern slavery, recognising that
senior leadership is critical and that oversight of ethical compliance is led at board level.

This statement has been approved by the QUIZ plc Board and is signed on their behalf by

Sheraz Ramzan
Chief Commercial Officer

Gerard Sweeney
Chief Financial Officer

28 September 2018

