MODERN DAY SLAVERY
STATEMENT
No person should work under conditions of slavery or
forced compulsory labour. This basic right is enshrined in
international law, regional instruments and national laws.
Yet for many workers, freedom to choose employment
remains beyond their reach. In 2018, the Global Slavery
Index estimated that 40.3 million people across the world
are in some form of modern slavery, with 70% of these
being women and girls. In the past five years, 89 million
people experienced some form of modern slavery for
periods ranging from a few days to the whole five years.
While the highest numbers of forced labourers were reported in Africa,
forced labour is found all around the world, including in Europe. The Global
Slavery Index estimates that 136,000 people were living in modern slavery
in the United Kingdom on any given day in 2016, reflecting a prevalence
rate of 2.1 victims for every thousand people in the country.
Modern slavery is an umbrella term that includes forced labour, debt
bondage, servitude and trafficking for labour exploitation. The prohibition
of forced labour forms Clause 1 of the Ethical Trading Initiative (ETI) Base
Code, which states “employment is freely chosen”, as it is the most blatant
labour rights violation. Forced labour describes a situation in which a worker
performs work or services involuntarily and under a threat of some form
of penalty.
Rowlinson Knitwear is a Foundation Member of the ETI. We endorse
and adopt all base codes within the ETI structure, and we expect that
all suppliers within our supply chain will do the same.

Rowlinson Facts and Figures

£14.1M

REVENUE (2017/2018)

4

69

EMPLOYEES
(INCLUDING TEMPORARY)

OVER 2M

OVERSEAS SUPPLIERS

GARMENTS PRODUCED

4

OVER 600

OVER 1M

38 TIER 1

This is our second Modern Slavery Statement published in accordance
with the Modern Slavery Act 2015. It explains our actions since we
published our first Modern Day Slavery Statement in August 2018,
together with details of our commitment to prevent modern slavery
in our business operation and supply chains.

DERN SLAVER
MO
Y

SOURCING COUNTRIES

CUSTOMERS

Trafficking for labour
and sexual exploitation

FORCED LABOUR

HUMAN TRAFFICKING
(cross border and
within a country)

EMBROIDERED ITEMS OF UNIFORM
Forced labour
as a result of
forced marriage

SUPPLIERS IN TOTAL

Trafficking for
slavery and
slavery-like
practices
SLAVERY AND SLAVERYLIKE PRACTICES
(including forced
marriage)

Modern Day Slavery Statement
Effective: August 2019

Page 1/9

MODERN DAY SLAVERY
STATEMENT

Our Supply Chain
All of our products are designed in-house.
Our product range is small and focused
to maximise on service and quality. We
source directly from our Tier 1 suppliers
and from one Tier 2 supplier (our knitwear
yarn). Embroidery embellishments are
manufactured by our overseas garment
suppliers in their factory, as well as from
third-party suppliers in the UK. We nurture
strong, long-term relationships with all our
suppliers so that we can manage the supply
chain efficiently, and to be effective in our
awareness and required actions.

10 TIER 1
PRODUCTION SITES

38 TIER 1
SUPPLIERS

4 COUNTRIES

40% 60%

13% 87%

16% 84%

10,138
WORKERS

SENIOR
MANAGEMENT
LEVEL

SUPERVISORY
LEVEL

DEFINITION

EXAMPLE

STATUS

TIER 1

Main production sites that we
source directly from.

Garment manufacturer and direct
embellishments, e.g. embroidery.

Fully mapped and published to
our website in June 2019.

TIER 2

Provider of one or more components
to Tier 1 supplier that are crucial to the
completion of final product.

Yarn, dyehouses and accessory
manufacturers.

Fully mapped.

TIER 3

Raw materials.

Man-made and natural textile fibres.

All raw materials recognised and our
supply chain is partially mapped.

TIER 4

In-direct service providers.

Delivery systems, including sea/air
freight and couriers.

Fully mapped.

Modern Day Slavery Statement
Effective: August 2019

Page 2/9

MODERN DAY SLAVERY
STATEMENT

About Rowlinson Knitwear Limited
Based in Stockport, Cheshire, UK, Rowlinson Knitwear Limited
was established in 1935, became an employee-owned business
in 2015 and is a member of the Employee Ownership Association.

We supply schoolwear and uniform clothing to our customers,
who are specialist independent retailers who have loyally
supported our business for many years. We choose not to
supply directly to the public, or in the case of our school uniform
garments, to schools or shops within schools. We believe that it is
important to adopt a transparent and ethical approach to business.

Wherever possible, we are committed to directly employing staff
and providing equal opportunity for remuneration, promotion and
training. If we use temporary labour in the UK, we work with labour
providers committed to becoming a member of the Association of
Labour Providers (ALP) and are engaged with working within the best
practice guidelines outlined in the Stronger Together Initiative.
We supply our customer base from four sourcing locations. Ranked
in order of spend, these locations are Bangladesh, Egypt, Philippines,
and the UK. We build and maintain strong supplier relationships
and all our current suppliers are long-term partners.
In some cases, we have partnered with suppliers for over fifteen
years. We directly employ a team of people that work for us and
are based in the overseas factories we source from, ensuring that
satisfactory working practices are upheld. We intend to expand the
roles of these individuals to assist in our ethical strategy and be
vigilant to ensure that we minimise the risks of modern-day slavery
occurring within our supply chain. This initiative will be delivered
through training and discussion directly with our Overseas Director.
We believe having our employed staff working directly in our Tier 1
supply chain allows us to strengthen this position, minimising the risk
of potential harm to workers. This has already been proven with the
SMETA Audit initiative launched by our Egyptian QC Officer across
all Tier 1 suppliers.
We do not own overseas operations. However, all overseas suppliers
are managed by our full-time Overseas Director based in Asia, who
also sits on our main board and drives our ethical strategy.

We only use factories who can demonstrate to our satisfaction
their compliance with all local health, safety and labour regulations.
We choose partners who share our ethical values and ambitions.
Our ethical trading policy is aligned with the principles of the
ETI Base Code. These principles drive our activity in the area
of supply. Rowlinson Knitwear is an ETI Foundation Member
and the business is in its second year of membership.

We work hard with our supply base to maintain transparency and
compliance with modern slavery and human trafficking. All our Tier
1 suppliers are aware of Rowlinson Knitwear’s affiliation with the ETI
and understand the requirements of the ETI Base Code, particularly
the first principle relating to employment being freely chosen,
including no forced labour, bonded or involuntary prison labour, as
well as ensuring employees have the right to leave an employer after
reasonable notice. This is achieved through dialogue with owners,
management, production staff, and the use of public workplace
notices where the ETI Base Code is displayed in the local languages.

Rowlinson Knitwear is an accredited Living Wage employer.
The Living Wage commitment means that everyone working
at Rowlinson Knitwear in the UK receives the accredited living
wage set at the time by the Living Wage Foundation.

Modern Day Slavery Statement
Effective: August 2019

Page 3/9

MODERN DAY SLAVERY
STATEMENT

Policies
With our values of trust, care and be better, we endeavour to
respect human rights across our global supply chain. We have
several methods of achieving this through several policies and our
compliance with the ETI Base Code, which we work with Tier 1
suppliers to enshrine in their working practices.

Ethical Statement

Our Ethical Statement closely follows the ETI Base Code, confirming
that employment is freely chosen. All our Tier 1 suppliers have been
issued with copies of this policy and understand our expectation that
they will implement it within their own organisation. We expect to
audit this during 2019/2020 and report back on compliance.

Whistleblower Actions

We recognise the importance of giving people in our supply chain
a voice, allowing them to share concerns and ideas anonymously,
and with confidence that we will respond appropriately to issues in
our supply chain. No one understands these issues better than the
worker at the very front of our supply process.
We believe new technologies and growing awareness of social
media platforms are the primary methods to empower workers
with an easy-to-use, confidential channel to raise issues. Through
extensive investigations we have already embarked on our first
initiative with our entire Bangladesh supply chain, giving voice to
workers through the Amader Kotha helpline. This is a 24-hour, 7-day
a week free of charge helpline that workers can call to report any
aspects of concern in the workplace. More than 500 workers at our
primary knitwear supplier were given access to Amader Kotha in
August 2019. It has already been in place for several years with 9,000
workers at our blazer supplier.

Cotton Policy

Through the process of mapping our supply chain, we have already
evaluated the potential threat of Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan
cotton being used in our supply chain. Cotton from these sources
is reported to openly and regularly use exploited and forced labour,
including child labour, in the harvesting of cotton fibre. We have
made investigations to confirm that such cotton is not being used
with our knowledge or consent in any of our products, and all
suppliers have reassured us of this position in writing. Also, we have
developed our Cotton Policy and issued copies to all Tier 1 suppliers.
Rowlinson is a signatory to the Responsible Sourcing Network’s
Turkmen and Uzbek Cotton Pledge, alongside brands including M&S,
Nike, Adidas and H&M Group. This is a public commitment that we
will not source cotton from Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan until forced
labour in its cotton sector has been eliminated.

Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy

Our anti-bribery and anti-corruption policy exists to set out the
responsibilities of Rowlinson Knitwear Limited and those who work
for us in regards to observing and upholding our zero-tolerance
position on bribery and corruption.
A copy of all our policies can be viewed on our website:
www.rowlinson-knitwear.com

Further information: https://amaderkothahelpline.net/

Modern Day Slavery Statement
Effective: August 2019

Page 4/9

MODERN DAY SLAVERY
STATEMENT

SPOTLIGHT ON
AMADER KOTHA HELPLINE

3,032

9,637

Factories with Calls

Peak Monthly Calls

Factories Calls

The Amader Kotha helpline is a successful
grievance mechanism that allows workers
in Bangladeshi garment factories to
report and quickly resolve workplace
issues before they escalate into
major problems.
The objective of the Amader Kotha helpline is
to identify and resolve workplace problems,
strengthen internal factory grievance handling
processes, and provide assurances to brands
consistent with principles of human rights and
global best practice. The helpline accomplishes this
objective by providing a best-in-class call intake and
handling protocols.

600

Peak Calls

91%

92%

Issues

Issues Resolved

Shared Name

Issues Reported Monthly

Safety Issues Resolved

Shared Their Name

It is operated by a unique partnership between three
globally recognised, award-winning project partners.
Clear Voice, a project of The Cahn Group which
specialises in hotlines and effective complaints
procedures in supply chains.
Phulki, a respected civil society organization
working to improve the lives of workers and their
families in Bangladesh.
ELEVATE, the parent company of Laborlink,
a leading business risk and sustainability
solutions provider.
As one of the most successful communication
channels, the helpline receives more than 500 safety
and non-safety issues every month, resolving over
80% of all issues. Issues are closed when workers
are satisfied with the response they receive or when
experts conclude a factory is safe.

It is fantastic to see brands and retailers,
like Rowlinson Knitwear, adopting the
Amader Kotha helpline within their supply
chain to ensure factories are protecting
workers from safety and labour risks
as well as aiding factory managers to
improve workplace conditions.
Doug Cahn, Amader Kotha Helpline

The Amader Kotha helpline is now fully
implemented with all Tier 1 suppliers in
Bangladesh, representing more than 70%
of our supply chain.

Modern Day Slavery Statement
Effective: August 2019

Page 5/9

MODERN DAY SLAVERY
STATEMENT

Due Diligence & Risk Assessment
To be effective in our initiative of focusing on ethical trade and
modern-day slavery, our first tactic is to adopt a more comprehensive
audit programme to encompass more social compliance. Our first
steps were to have all Tier 1 suppliers formally registered with
Suppliers Ethical & Database Exchange (SEDEX). This work has now
been completed and we are embarking on stage 2 of this initiative,
which will see all our Bangladesh Tier 1 suppliers complete a Sedex
Members Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA) by the end of 2019.
We recognise that audits alone are not an effective measure but
can be useful as a component of monitoring activity. We are
now advancing our understanding of the importance of active
and ongoing due diligence and risk assessment processes,
coupled with effective grievance procedures, should activity that
indicates a breach of best practice be identified. Our Overseas
Director, supported by our UK Planning Officer, has undertaken
comprehensive ETI training during 2018-19 and has further training
scheduled for 2020, to increase our knowledge of ethical trade.

We have identified the lack of trade union representation or poor
worker representation in our Bangladesh and Egypt supplier
operations. We are working hard to engage more closely with
the Worker Participation Committee (WPC) in our Bangladesh
operations to see what more we can do to support and strengthen
this. Specifically, we are investigating Social Dialogue programmes
with workers through the ETI’s existing initiatives in this area.
We are optimistic that we will be able to establish formal Worker
Participation Committees within our primary Bangladesh supply
chain during 2020.
We have conducted employee and gender analysis for all
Tier 1 suppliers, including our UK contract embroiderers,
to enhance our understanding of our Tier 1 suppliers and
any areas of further improvement.

Mapping our Tier 1 supply chain is now complete and made public
on our website. Our Tier 2 and Tier 4 supply chain is also fully
mapped. To date, this has highlighted high-risk concerns about
cotton fibre sources, which have already been addressed, with
our cotton policy established and shared with suppliers.
We are working closely with the ETI to understand more about the
importance of due diligence and risk assessment in these early
stages of our development. The Global Slavery Index has already
highlighted two potential high-risk areas for our supply strategy.
These potential high-risk areas are Bangladesh, where almost
600,000 people are estimated to be in slavery, and Egypt, where
over 500,000 people are estimated to be in slavery. Our largest
presence in purchase and production is in Bangladesh, which
will be our main focus of attention for audits in 2019/20.

Modern Day Slavery Statement
Effective: August 2019

Page 6/9

MODERN DAY SLAVERY
STATEMENT

Action taken to address Modern Slavery
We work closely with Tier 1 suppliers and with our employees based
in their operations, and as well as having full-time, on-site staff at all
primary Tier 1 suppliers, we also arrange frequent visits from senior
members of the Rowlinson UK team. As a result, we have clear
visibility of the operations and working practices in place, and
a positive relationship that encourages open and honest
discussion of potential risks or issues.
We are Foundation members of the ETI, demonstrating our
commitment to learn how we can continue to be better at trading
ethically and how we approach implementing the Base Code with
our supply chain partners. We have made some steps, taking
action to address modern slavery, which included mapping our
supply chain where we discovered the potential for our products to
contain unauthorised cotton picked and sourced from Uzbekistan
or Turkmenistan (where both countries are reported to use forced
labour and child labour in the collection of cotton crops). We took the
initiative to check and obtain written assurances from all suppliers of
cotton blend products that no such cotton was used. In addition, we
visited Chinese yarn operations in 2018/19 to confirm this position.
However, we recognise that additional surveillance measures may be
needed in the future, to ensure that suppliers remain committed to
this goal.

requirement in this country, and an area that would assist us in
monitoring modern day slavery. To establish this, we are investigating
internal training with staff at all levels within our largest Bangladesh
supplier through a Social Dialogue Programme organised by ETI,
Bangladesh. We plan to begin this work in early 2020.
In October 2018 we met with the Home Office Modern Slavery Unit
in coordination with the Behavioural Insights Team. This meeting
allowed them to conduct research with smaller organisations to
understand how best to approach producing a modern day slavery
statement. This proved a very beneficial meeting for Rowlinson
and the Insights Team, and resulted in our modern day slavery
statement being registered online for fuller transparency with the
Modern Slavery Registry and TISC report Modern Slavery Act
Compliance Tracker.
Further details available from:
https://www.modernslaveryregistry.org/
https://tiscreport.org/

We are particularly proud of our new initiative - which went live in
August 2019 - to implement the Amader Kotha helpline to almost
10,000 members of staff in our supply chain throughout Bangladesh.
More details of this initiative are detailed on page 5 of this Statement.
As a result, Rowlinson Knitwear joined and became signatories to the
Responsible Sourcing Network’s Turkmen and Uzbek Cotton Pledge.
We intend to check and seek guidance that this position remains in
our supply chain annually and reported here.
We work closely with the ETI’s Bangladesh office and have already
identified areas of concern related to the representation of workers
through Worker Participation Committees in Bangladesh, a legal

Modern Day Slavery Statement
Effective: August 2019

Page 7/9

MODERN DAY SLAVERY
STATEMENT
Progress Against 2018 Modern Day Slavery Statement
ACTIONS

COMPLETION

We conduct annual supplier performance audits
on our direct (Tier 1) suppliers to ensure safe
and positive working conditions. These are being
expanded in scope to include ethical trade.

Audit procedures formalised by August 2018.
Audits of all Tier 1 suppliers completed by
December 2018.

ONE YEAR PROGRESS
Sedex platform expanded to include all Primary
Tier 1 suppliers. SMETA Pillar 2 Audits scheduled
and confirmed for completion by September 2019.
All non-conformances to be eradicated
by end 2019.

Dialogue with all Tier 1 suppliers on our
expectations in relation to ETI, specifically the
ETI Base Code and modern slavery, to gain buyin from all Tier 1 suppliers to our current supplier/
buyer code of conduct.

Dialogue and sign-off of supplier/buyer
code of conduct by December 2018.

We decided to commit to a more public
agreement between supplier and buyer,
publishing full-colour, branded ETI Base Code
notice boards in all Tier 1 suppliers. This lends
greater transparency to our expectations and
agreements with suppliers, as well as clearly
communicates the rights of workers in our supply
chain. This work was completed in Aug 2019.
No further work progressed in relation to a Buyer/
Supplier Code of Conduct.

Mapping our supply chain beyond
Tier 1 suppliers so that we can evolve and
ensure the highest levels of ethical trade are
adhered to throughout our supply chains beyond
our direct suppliers.

Tier 1 – Complete.
Tier 2 – Complete by end December 2019.

All Tier 1, Tier 2 & Tier 4 supply chains have
been mapped and we have published the
Tier 1 supply chain map on our website for
further transparency.

Viable options understood and
commitments to implementation made
by 1st January 2019.

We launched the Amada Kother helpline
with all our Tier 1 Bangladesh supply chain
in August 2019. This is fully supported by
Rowlinson, giving workers access to a helpline
and support on any work-related issues
they may have.

Investigation of online whistle-blower platforms
to take advantage of social media and bring
greater transparency to the issues that can be
conducive to modern day slavery.

2019/20 Actions
ACTIONS

COMPLETION

Complete all Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audits (SMETA)
with Tier 1 Bangladesh supply chain. Identify non-conformances

June 2020

and complete corrective actions.

Establish on-site audit procedures for remaining Tier1 and Tier 2 suppliers.

Aug 2020

Begin work on mapping supply chain at Tier 3 level.

Dec 2019

Establish an elected worker participation committee with our largest Tier 1
supplier through on-site training using the ETI Social Dialogue Programme.

Aug 2020

Modern Day Slavery Statement
Effective: August 2019

Page 8/9

MODERN DAY SLAVERY
STATEMENT

Training on Modern Slavery
Rowlinson Knitwear has been an ethical business for a long
time. True to our values of trust, care and be better, we’re proud
to have achieved so much. Whether we’re manufacturing safe,
high quality clothing, caring for all colleagues and workers in our
overseas operations or reducing our environmental impact, we
care deeply about our actions. However, we know there is much
more to do and we are dedicated to evolving ethical and modern
day slavery governance throughout our supply chain.
In our first year operating within the scope of our modern day
slavery statement, senior colleagues undertook comprehensive
training on modern day slavery and effective due diligence work.
In this second year, we will extend training to our UK-based
Planning Assistant Officer who supports our Overseas Director
on all ethical trade processes. We have also committed to
develop a more comprehensive role within our supply chain.
We understand the challenges of identifying modern day slavery
in the workplace, especially in overseas operations. To maintain
a consistent and monitored presence, we directly employ five
Quality Control staff at all our major locations in Egypt and
Bangladesh. Our directly employed Overseas Officer based in
Egypt has completed relevant training to ensure the effective
implementation of SMETA Pillar 2 audits at our supplier
operations, as well as personal on-site audit processes at all
Tier 1 suppliers for the 2019/20 period. We have also scheduled
further colleague training in 2019 and 2020, to be delivered by
ETI in London.
We’re proud of the progress we have made so far. However,
we know that there is much more work to do and we’re acutely
focused on improving our understanding of our supply chain.
It matters deeply to us that we achieve greater transparency,
so that we can take appropriate and decisive action to mitigate
the risks of modern day slavery in our supply chain.

Donald Moore
Managing Director
Rowlinson Knitwear Limited
Modern Day Slavery Statement
Effective: August 2019

Page 9/9

