MODERN DAY SLAVERY
STATEMENT
No person should work under conditions of
slavery or forced compulsory labour. This basic
right is enshrined in international law, regional
instruments and national laws. Yet for many
workers, freedom to choose employment
remains beyond reach. In 2016 the Global
Slavery Index estimated that 45.8 million people
are in some form of modern slavery across
167 countries. One in four victims of modern
slavery are children. 58% of all those living
in slavery are in 5 prominent countries; India,
China, Pakistan, Uzbekistan, and Bangladesh the latter being a main sourcing destination for
Rowlinson products.

Rowlinson Facts and Figures

£14.1M

REVENUE (2016/17)

56

EMPLOYEES

While the highest numbers of forced labourers were reported
in Asia, forced labour is found all around the world, including in
Europe. The UK Government estimated in 2013 that 10-13,000
people are in modern slavery in the UK at any given time.
Modern slavery is an umbrella term that includes forced labour,
debt bondage, servitude and trafficking for the purposes of
labour exploitation. The prohibition of forced labour forms
Clause 1 of the Ethical Trading Initiative (ETI) Base Code, which
states “employment is freely chosen”, as it is the most blatant
labour rights violation. Forced labour describes a situation in
which a worker performs work or services involuntarily and
under a threat of some form of penalty.
Rowlinson Knitwear is a Foundation member of the ETI. We
endorse and adopt all base codes within the ETI structure, and
it is our expectation that all suppliers within our supply chain
will do the same.
This statement has been published in accordance with the
Modern Slavery Act (2015). It provides information on our
activities and commitments to prevent modern slavery in our
business operation and supply chains.

5

OVER 2M

OVERSEAS SUPPLIERS

GARMENTS PRODUCED

5

OVER 600

SOURCING COUNTRIES

OVER 1M

EMBROIDERED ITEMS OF UNIFORM

CUSTOMERS

1,300

PRODUCTION STAFF

Modern Day Slavery Statement
Effective: 1 August 2018

Page 1/7

MODERN DAY SLAVERY
STATEMENT

Our Supply Chain
All Rowlinson Knitwear’s products are designed
and specified in-house. Our product range is small
and focused to maximise on service and quality. We
source directly from all Tier 1 suppliers and one Tier
2 supplier (acrylic yarn from Turkey). Embroidery
embellishments are manufactured by our overseas
garment suppliers (on-site), as well as from
third-party suppliers in the UK.

DEFINITION

EXAMPLE

STATUS

TIER 1

Main production sites, sourced directly
by Rowlinson.

Garment manufacturer and direct
embellishments such as embroidery.

Fully mapped.

TIER 2

Provider of one or more components to
Tier 1 supplier crucial to the completion
of final product.

Yarn, dye house and accessory
manufacturers.

50% mapped - completion by end 2019.

TIER 3

Raw materials.

Man-made and natural textile fibres.

We recognise that most raw materials in
our supply chain are not mapped - work
to commence end 2019.

TIER 4

In-direct service providers.

Delivery systems, including sea/air freight
and couriers.

Direct providers mapped - no
investigations conducted at this stage.

Modern Day Slavery Statement
Effective: 1 August 2018

Page 2/7

MODERN DAY SLAVERY
STATEMENT

About Rowlinson Knitwear Limited
Based in Stockport, Cheshire, UK, Rowlinson Knitwear Limited
was established in 1935, an employee-owned business since
2015 and is a member of the Employee Ownership Association.

Wherever possible, Rowlinson Knitwear is committed to directly
employing staff and providing equal opportunity for remuneration,
promotion and training. If we use temporary labour in the UK,
we work with labour providers that are committed to becoming
a member of the Association of Labour Providers (ALP) and are
engaged with working within the best practice guidelines outlined in
the Stronger Together Initiative.
We supply our customer base from five major sourcing locations
worldwide - Egypt, Bangladesh, Turkey, Philippines and the UK.
All our suppliers are long-term serving organisations to our supply
chain, and in many cases, we have partnered with suppliers for over

We supply schoolwear and uniform clothing to our customer base
choosing not to supply directly to the public, or in the case of our
school uniform garments, to schools or shops within schools.
In those cases, we support the specialist independent retailers who
have loyally supported our business for many years. We believe that
it is important to adopt a transparent and ethical approach
to business.

ten years. We build strong supplier relations and employ a team
of people that work for Rowlinson Knitwear independent of the
factories we source from, but based within the factories, ensuring
that satisfactory working practices are upheld. It is our intention to
expand the roles of these individuals to assist in our ethical strategy
and be vigilant to ensure that we minimise the risks of modern
day slavery occurring within our supply chain. This initiative will be
delivered through training and discussion directly with our Overseas
Director. We believe having our own employed staff working directly
in our Tier 1 supply chain allows us to strengthen this position,
minimising the risk and potential harm to workers.

We do not own an overseas operation. However, all overseas
suppliers are managed by our full-time Overseas Director based in
Asia, who also sits on our main board and drives our ethical strategy.

We only use factories which can demonstrate to our satisfaction
that they are fully compliant with all local health, safety and labour
regulations, and we choose partners who share our ethical values
and ambitions. Our policy in relation to ethical trading is aligned
with the principles of the Ethical Trade Initiative (ETI) Base Code and
these are used to drive our activity in the area of supply. Rowlinson
Knitwear is a Foundation Member of this organisation.

Rowlinson Knitwear is an accredited Living Wage employer. The
Living Wage commitment means that everyone working at Rowlinson
Knitwear in the UK, regardless of whether they are direct employees
or third-party contracted staff, receives a minimum hourly wage of
£8.75, or £10.20 for those in London. Both rates are significantly
higher than the statutory minimum for over 25s of £7.50 per hour
introduced in April 2017.

We work hard with our supply base to maintain transparency and
compliance with modern slavery and human trafficking. All our Tier
1 suppliers are aware of Rowlinson Knitwear’s affiliation with the ETI
and understand the requirements of the ETI Base Code, particularly
the first principle relating to employment being freely chosen,
including no forced labour, bonded or involuntary prison labour, as
well as ensuring employees have the right to leave an employer after
reasonable notice. This is achieved through dialogue with owners,
management, production staff, and the use of public workplace
notices where the ETI Base Code is displayed in the local languages.

Modern Day Slavery Statement
Effective: 1 August 2018

Page 3/7

MODERN DAY SLAVERY
STATEMENT

Policies
With our core values of trust, care and be better, we endeavour
to respect human rights across our global supply chain. We have
several methods in working towards this through a number of
policies and our compliance with the ETI Base Code, which we work
with Tier 1 suppliers to enshrine in their own working practices.

Ethical Statement

This follows very closely the ETI Base Code and explicitly references
that employment is freely chosen. All our TIER 1 suppliers have been
issued with copies of this policy and understand our expectation that
they will implement it within their own organisation. We expect to
audit this during 2018/19 and report back on compliance.

Whistle-Blower Policy

We recognise the importance of giving people in our supply chain
a voice, affording them an opportunity to share concerns and ideas
anonymously and with confidence, knowing that we will react to
issues in our supply chain. No one understands these issues better
than the worker at the very front of our supply process. We believe
new technologies and growing awareness of social media platforms
are the primary method to achieve this. Rowlinson Knitwear is
embarking on an initiative to develop a social network forum where
all people at our Tier 1 suppliers can post information directly to us,
so we can act quickly to resolve issues. We aim to fully explore the
capabilities of this by 1st January 2019 with a view to having a viable
system in place during the first half of 2019.
In addition, we will continue to ensure that our employed staff on the
ground are available to accept comments and are engaging directly
with the workforce to address any issues.

Supplier/Buyer Code of Conduct

By the end of 2018, all our Tier 1 suppliers will have been issued with
copies of our Supplier/Buyer Code of Conduct in a local or supplier
chosen language and we invite suppliers to openly discuss any
aspects that they feel are difficult to enact due to the local workplace
environment. Explaining our expectations and what the supplier can
expect from us completes our two way commitment to ethical trade.

Cotton Policy

Through the process of mapping our supply chain, we have already
evaluated the potential threat of Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan
cotton being used in our supply chain. Cotton from these sources
is reported to openly and regularly use exploited and forced labour,
including child labour in the harvesting of cotton fibre. We have made
investigations to confirm that such cotton is not being used with
our knowledge or consent in any of our products, and all suppliers
have reassured us of this position in writing. In addition, we have
developed our Cotton Policy and issued copies to all Tier 1 suppliers.

Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy

Our anti-bribery and corruption policy exists to set out the
responsibilities of Rowlinson Knitwear Limited and those who work
for us in regards to observing and upholding our zero tolerance
position on bribery and corruption.
A copy of all our policies can be viewed on our website:
www.rowlinson-knitwear.com

We will continue to monitor, reflect and improve our engagement
with workers and their representatives through this technology and
not use the technology as a barrier to meaningful engagement in
potential issues.

Modern Day Slavery Statement
Effective: 1 August 2018

Page 4/7

MODERN DAY SLAVERY
STATEMENT

Due Diligence & Risk Assessment
Previously, Rowlinson Knitwear has primarily focused on health
and safety with our Tier 1 suppliers, capturing annual health and
safety audits as part of this process. In order to be effective in our
new initiative focusing on ethical trade and modern day slavery, our
first tactic is to adopt a more comprehensive audit programme to
encompass more social compliance. We expect the first of these
audits to be conducted and publicly published in December 2018.
We recognise that audits alone are not an effective measure but
can be used as a component of monitoring activity. We are now
advancing our understanding of the importance of active and
ongoing due diligence and risk assessment processes, coupled

with effective grievance procedures, should activity that indicates
a breach of best practice be identified. Our Overseas Director will
undertake comprehensive training during Q4 2018, in order for us
to develop our understanding and knowledge prior to implementing
further applications afterwards.
Mapping of our Tier 1 supply chain is now complete, with 50% of our
Tier 2 supply chain mapped and we aim to complete Tier 2 mapping
by the end of 2019. To date, this has highlighted high risk concerns in
relation to cotton fibre sources, which have already been addressed,
with our cotton policy established and shared with suppliers stating
our clear position on this.
We are working closely with the ETI to understand more about the
importance of due diligence and risk assessment in these early
stages of our development. The Global Slavery Index has already
highlighted two potential high risk areas for our supply strategy,
namely Bangladesh with 1.5 million people estimated to be in slavery,
and Egypt with over 0.5 million estimated to be in slavery. These
will be our main areas of focus on audits for 2018, and any remedial
action required.
In addition we have already identified the lack of trade union
representation, or poor worker representation in both our Bangladesh
and Egypt supplier operations. We are seeking to engage more
closely with the Worker Participation Committee (WPC) in our
Bangladesh operations to see what more we can do to support and
strengthen this. Specifically, we are investigating Social Dialogue
programmes with workers through the ETI’s initiatives already
established in this area. In Egypt, we plan to formally establish and
launch a WPC with our supplier by March 2019, reporting back on
this in our 2019 statement.
We have conducted employee and gender analysis for all Tier 1
suppliers, including our UK contract embroiderers, to further assist
us in understanding more closely our Tier 1 suppliers and areas of
improvement.
Modern Day Slavery Statement
Effective: 1 August 2018

Page 5/7

MODERN DAY SLAVERY
STATEMENT

Action taken to address modern slavery
We work exceptionally closely with our direct (Tier 1) suppliers,
with our own employees based within their operations, and arrange
frequent visits from Rowlinson Knitwear’s Directors. This means we
have a strong oversight of the operations and working practices in
place, and a positive relationship that encourages open and honest
discussion of potential risks or issues.
We are Foundation members of the ETI, demonstrating our
commitment to continuous learning on how to be better in terms
of ethical trade and implementation of the code with our supply
chain partners. We have achieved some steps forward, with action
taken to address modern slavery, including mapping our supply

chain where we discovered the potential for our products to contain
unauthorised cotton picked and sourced from Uzbekistan and/
or Turkmenistan, where both countries are reported to use forced
labour and child labour in the collection of cotton crops. We took the
initiative to enquire of all suppliers providing cotton blend products
to us, checking and obtaining written assurances from them that no
such cotton was used. We are pleased to report that this position has
been confirmed by suppliers. However, we recognise that additional
surveillance measures may be needed in the future, to ensure that
suppliers remain committed to this goal.

As a result Rowlinson joined and became signatories to the Turkmen
and Uzbek Cotton Pledge with the Responsible Sourcing Network. It
is our intention to check and seek guidance that this position remains
in our supply chain annually and reported here.
We work closely with the ETI Bangladesh office and have already
identified areas of concern related to the representation of workers
through Worker Participation Committees in Bangladesh, a legal
requirement in this country, and an area that would assist us in
monitoring modern day slavery.
To establish this, we are investigating internal training with staff at
all levels within our largest Bangladesh supplier through a Social
Dialogue Programme organised by ETI, Bangladesh. We look forward
to delivering more positive news on this throughout 2019.

ACTIONS

COMPLETION

We conduct annual supplier performance audits on our direct
(Tier 1) suppliers to ensure safe and positive working conditions.
These are being expanded in scope to include ethical trade.

Audit procedures formalised by August 2018.
Audits at all Tier 1 suppliers complete by December 2018.

Dialogue with all Tier 1 suppliers on our expectations in relation
to Ethical Trade, particularly in relation to the ETI Base Code,
Modern Slavery, and buy-in from all Tier 1 suppliers to our
current Supplier/Buyer Code of Conduct.

Dialogue and sign-off of Supplier/Buyer
code of conduct by December 2018.

Mapping our supply chain beyond Tier 1 suppliers so that we can
evolve and ensure the highest levels of ethical trade are adhered
to throughout our supply chains beyond our direct suppliers.

Tier 1 – Complete.
Tier 2 – Complete by end December 2019.

Investigation of online Whistle-Blower platforms to take advantage
of social media and bring greater transparency to the issues that
can be conducive to modern day slavery.

Viable options understood and commitments
to implementation made by 1st January 2019.

Modern Day Slavery Statement
Effective: 1 August 2018

Page 6/7

MODERN DAY SLAVERY
STATEMENT

Training on Modern Slavery
As a values-led business, we are dedicated to evolving the ethical
trading and modern day slavery governance throughout our supply
chain. We have already embarked on the first stage of training with
senior staff.
Our Commercial and Overseas Directors have both attended
essentials training on ethical trade with the ETI in May 2018. Our
Overseas Director, who leads the ethical strategy and modern day
slavery initiative is continuing this training with further ETI essentials
training courses in London scheduled for October and November
2018.
The Modern Day Slavery Act training in conjunction with CIPS was
completed in June 2018. A three-day training on Human Rights due
diligence will be completed in the final quarter of 2018.
We understand and appreciate the difficulties of identifying modern
day slavery in the workplace, especially in overseas operations.
Therefore, we directly employed five Quality Control staff at all our
high risk locations in Egypt and Bangladesh, and plan to provide
training on modern day slavery to these individuals who work on a
day-to-day basis within our supplier operations. We believe delivering
this training will enhance our ability to identify issues and work on
remedial actions with suppliers.

Donald Moore
Managing Director
Rowlinson Knitwear Limited

Modern Day Slavery Statement
Effective: 1 August 2018

Page 7/7

