Disclosure statement on modern slavery
Introduction
An estimated 40.3 million people are victims of modern slavery. Of these, 24.9 million
people are in forced labor. Asia Pacific has the highest numbers of victims with 16.5 million
in situations of forced labor, and over 28 million children in the worst forms of child labor.1
While modern slavery is commonly found in the informal economy, small businesses and
even private households, there is growing acknowledgment that modern slavery is also
present in global supply chains and that no country, sector or business is immune.
Given its complexity and pervasiveness, ending modern slavery requires coordinated action
between a range of actors, including governments, civil society and the private sector. The
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) were adopted in 2015 with a specific target (Target
8.7) focused on the eradication of modern slavery and child labor.2 The SDGs and Target 8.7,
represent an opportunity for Li & Fung to work in partnership to ensure stronger due
diligence over our supply chains, and to encourage stronger labor market and migration
governance in the countries where we operate.

Target 8.7:
Take immediate and
effective measures to
eradicate forced labor, end
modern slavery and
human trafficking and
secure the prohibition and
elimination of the worst
forms of child labor

This statement is published in accordance with the UK Modern Slavery Act (2015) and the
SB657 California Transparency in Supply Chains Act. It builds on the commitments detailed
in our Modern Slavery Statement 2017 to prevent modern slavery in our business operations
and supply chains and sets out the steps taken during 2018 and outlines our future
commitments. This important statement is fully supported and approved by our Board of
Directors.

1

2

Global estimates of modern slavery: Forced labour and forced marriage, International Labour Office (ILO), Geneva, 2017. Definitions: Modern slavery covers a variety of legal concepts. It refers to
situations of exploitation that a person cannot refuse or leave because of threats, violence, coercion, deception and/or abuse of power. Hazardous work by children is often treated as a proxy
category for the worst forms of child labor as children in hazardous work account for the overwhelming majority of those in the worst forms of child labor.
The SDGs supplement the existing international framework on forced labor and child labor. Including: Child Labour Conventions and Recommendations (C138 and R46; C182 and R190); United
National Convention on the Rights of the Child; Buenos Aires Declaration on Child Labour, Forced Labour and Youth Employment (2017); ILO Forced Labour Conventions, Recommendations and
Protocols (C29, P29, R35 and R203; C105); and The Palermo Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons, especially Women and Children.

1

Disclosure statement on modern slavery
About Li & Fung
Li & Fung, a Hong Kong-headquartered, multinational group, is the world’s leading supply
chain solutions partner for foremost brands and retailers worldwide. We design, source
and deliver a diverse range of products – including apparel, accessories and household
items – from a network of 10,000 suppliers in over 50 production countries, to over 2,000
customers globally. With over 16,800 people in over 230 offices and 280 distribution
centers, we are an asset-light organization using our extensive reach, depth of experience,
market knowledge and digital solutions to enable our customers to respond quickly to
evolving consumer and production trends.
We are focused on digitalizing our global supply chain, to create an end-to-end stream of
synchronized supply chain data, that will allow us to improve speed, cost, working capital,
inventory, sustainability and traceability for all partners in our ecosystem. Our priority is
developing and operating responsible, agile supply chains that meet the demands of a
dynamic retail sector, while protecting and improving the lives of all those who are
touched by it.

Our Supply Chain

Suppliers
worldwide

10,000

Top five sourcing countries
China

Indonesia

India

Bangladesh

Vietnam

Production countries

50+

We operate an extensive global supply chain network in over 230 offices and
280 distribution centers around the world, working with our vendor base of
10,000 suppliers to add value to our global brand and retail customers.

Employees
worldwide

EUROPE

16,840

ASIA

THE
AMERICAS

AFRICA

2

Disclosure statement on modern slavery

Policies and Governance
Li & Fung is committed to the principles of good governance both at the corporate level and in our supply chain.

Corporate Policies and Governance
The Li & Fung Code of Conduct and Business Ethics (the Code) requires all employees to embed in business
operations the ten principles of the UN Global Compact and the principles contained in the International Labor
Organization's Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, including the elimination of forced
labor.
All new employees learn about the Code during orientation, supported by additional training during the course of
their employment. Policies and guidelines for addressing the Code are implemented in the acquisition of any
new businesses and through our ongoing recruitment, training, performance assessment, disciplinary and
grievance processes.
The Code also requires all employees to work with suppliers to ensure human and labor rights are upheld
throughout the supply chain, including the elimination of forced labor.

Supplier Policies and Governance
Our Corporate Sustainability and Compliance (CSC) team is responsible for developing and monitoring
Li & Fung’s Modern Slavery strategy, including implementation of supply chain policies addressing modern
slavery. CSC maintains its independence from external and internal stakeholders by reporting directly to the
Group Chairman. The CSC team sits across 14 countries with the central governance team based in Hong Kong,
our global headquarters.
Our principles addressing modern slavery are primarily enshrined in the Li & Fung Supplier Code of Conduct
(Supplier Code). The Supplier Code, which is accessible via Li & Fung’s corporate website and available in
multiple languages, is built upon key international standards, including the International Labour Organization
(ILO)’s 1998 Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work (including the Supplementary Protocol to
C. 29), as well as local laws. All forms of modern slavery are considered zero-tolerance issues and carry with it
the need for full remediation along with potential termination of business.

3

Disclosure statement on modern slavery
Rigorous factory onboarding is a crucial step in mitigating the risk of modern slavery. We provide onboarding
training to new factories and our internal business units to ensure they understand the Supplier Code and the
consequences of non-compliance. Li & Fung requires understanding of, and compliance with, the Supplier Code
as a condition of doing business with us. Each supplier must sign a copy of the Supplier Code and participate in
the onboarding process before production begins.
Strategy on Responsible Recruitment

Abusive recruitment practices are the most common gateway to modern slavery. Recent reports from the ILO
and World Bank show that payment of recruitment fees and related costs by workers significantly increases the
risk of modern slavery.5 The higher the costs paid by the worker, the higher the worker’s risk of being trapped in
modern slavery. Low-skilled workers tend to be particularly vulnerable to high recruitment costs. The ILO found
that illegal recruitment fees amount to more than US$1.4 billion annually. Survey data has shown that
recruitment costs can amount to nine months or more of average yearly earnings in some migration corridors.
Li & Fung supports the AAFA and Fair Labor Association (FLA) Commitment to Responsible Recruitment, which
includes commitments to:
i. Incorporate the Commitment to Responsible Recruitment into our social compliance standards,
including our Supplier Code, before end of 2019
ii. Periodically report our actions to imbed elements of the Commitment to Responsible Recruitment in our
policies and processes through sustainability reporting and modern slavery legal disclosures
Li & Fung has developed a comprehensive Responsible Recruitment strategy to support our AAFA commitment
with a focus on strengthened policy, due diligence, technological innovation, training and remediation.

Due Diligence and Risk Mitigation
Audits and Unannounced Spot Checks
Li & Fung assesses compliance against our Supplier Code through audits conducted by one of three designated
third-party audit firms. Third-party audit firm performance is monitored by a robust system of key performance
indicators covering areas related to integrity, performance and accuracy. Li & Fung also accepts audits
conducted against industry standards that meet our requirements as part of our audit “Equivalency” Program,
including Better Work, Fair Labor Association, Sedex, Responsible Business Alliance and Amfori.
All direct suppliers are audited according to a schedule, which varies according to their level of risk (higher risk
suppliers are audited more frequently). Each audit includes interviews with workers, including at least five
migrant workers (where relevant). Audits also include visits to associated production facilities and dormitories.
Nearly 100% of our audits that take place following a critical violation are conducted on a semi-announced6 or
unannounced basis. Audit data is then combined with industry and country data to provide an overall
understanding of risk.
Li & Fung also conducts unannounced spot checks on factories, with a focus on those with longer approval
periods or factories located in regions with increased risk factors, including potential indicators of forced labor.
In 2018, we completed 400 unannounced spot checks in 15 countries, including some spot checks focused on
recruitment practices. The recruitment-related spot checks included migrant worker interviews conducted in a
confidential setting in the workers’ own language.

5
6

For recent information on the link between recruitment costs and modern slavery, see ILO and WB - KNOMAD publications https://www.knomad.org/thematic-working-group-single/2#publications
Semi-announced means a factory will know an audit will happen but not the exact day it will occur. Most semi-announced visits have an announcement window of two weeks or more.

4

Disclosure statement on modern slavery
We are also advocating for harmonization and improvement in the way our audit “Equivalency” industry
standards measure, identify and report on modern slavery. In 2018, we provided verbal or in-person feedback to
a number of industry standards on this issue, including participation in the Sedex Risk Assessment Project
Advisory Group.

Monitoring Beyond the First Tier and Worker Voice
Li & Fung audits beyond tier 1 when requested to do so by our customers or where there is a high risk of issues
such as child or forced labor. For example, we conduct unannounced checks in some mills in South India
approximately every six months. The checks include interviews with management and workers. We also require
written declaration from the mills that they do not engage in modern-slavery practices.

Li & Fung joined forces with The Mekong Club and the United Nations
University’s Institute on Computing and Society (UNU-CS), a UN research think
tank, to test an innovative workers’ voice app - Apprise Audit. We are piloting the
Apprise Audit app in factories in Thailand and Vietnam.
The app enables more workers to be engaged during an audit in a safe, effective
and anonymous way. During a typical factory audit, the auditor has limited time
to interview workers, and they may be afraid of speaking out, or there may be a
language barrier. This is even more challenging in the engagement of migrant
workers, who are often more vulnerable and at risk of being trapped in forced
labor.
The Apprise Audit uses an app on a smartphone or tablet with headphones to ask workers questions in their
own language (through an audio recording that no one else can hear) to discover any red flags for forced labor.
The app’s questions cover several aspects of exploitation, ranging from retention of identity documents and
contract switching, to nonpayment of wages or excessive overtime, to threats and violence.
The app is a powerful and effective tool in the process of identifying and remediating cases of modern slavery,
which supports the sustainable transformation of the supply chain and making life better for those most
vulnerable.

Addressing Country Risk
In 2018, we conducted a detailed due diligence assessment to better understand modern slavery risks in all our
production markets. Based on the Mekong Club’s Risk Matrix and other internal and external data, we identified
Bangladesh, China, India and Malaysia as our key risk countries for modern slavery. Other parts of Southeast
Asia and the Middle East and North Africa region were also identified as having forced labor risks. Refer to
Li & Fung’s Annual Report 2018 and website for further detail.

5

Disclosure statement on modern slavery
Country Case Study: Innovative Training for Factory Managers in China
In 2018, the Ethical Trading Initiative (ETI) partnered with the Swedish-based training company, QuizRR, to pilot a
modern slavery digital education package targeting factory management in China.
The training capitalizes on ETI’s expertise and material related to modern slavery and QuizRR’s innovative digital
platform. The digital training solutions are based on customized film dramas followed by quiz questions.
Participants conduct the training individually or in groups in a fun, fast and engaging way to learn about employment
rights and responsibilities. The training is part of ETI’s efforts to use digital technology to scale-up awareness of
modern slavery and recruitment practices in China’s supply chains.
We engaged our suppliers to join the pilot and worked closely with ETI and QuizRR to facilitate effective
implementation in the factories. The pilot is progressing well and will end in the first quarter of 2019. Initial feedback
is positive, indicating that the training is “vivid, flexible and easy to understand.” Its digital and modular format means
suppliers are even able to train workers on the production floor during down time. We look forward to the next
adaptation of this digital training solution and to scaling its use in more diverse contexts.

Country Case Study: Eradicating Child Labor and Hazardous Forms of Work for Young Workers in
Bangladesh and China
Li & Fung’s Supplier Code prohibits the employment of children younger than 15 years of age, or younger than the
age of completion of compulsory education, or legal employment age of the relevant country, depending on which is
higher. The Supplier Code also prohibits the Worst Forms of Child Labor as defined by the ILO Convention No. 182.
In 2018, a specialized Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) was developed to improve and standardize internal
processes for identifying and remediating cases of child labor. We held in-person training for our colleagues
regularly visiting factories to ensure they understand how to communicate the relevant Supplier Code requirements
to factories, and know how to identify, respond and escalate suspected cases in accordance with the SOP.
In 2018, China and Bangladesh remained our highest risk countries for both child labor and hazardous forms of work
for young workers. We worked closely with the Center for Child Rights and Corporate Social Responsibility to train
select factories in our supply chain in these two countries and to ensure that identified cases were remediated in line
with international best practices and the best interests of the child. Refer to Li & Fung’s Annual Report 2018 and
website for further detail on our work related to hazardous forms of work.

6

Disclosure statement on modern slavery
Risk Mitigation in Key Markets
Market

Risk Mitigation and Partners

Future Actions

Bangladesh

• Unannounced spot checks to detect forced labor
• Membership of Alliance for Bangladesh Worker Safety,
which provides a hotline for workers to report abuse

• Continue unannounced spot checks
• Roll-out new e-learning tool for factory managers on
combatting modern slavery
• Centre for Child Rights and Corporate Social
Responsibility (CCR CSR) to execute in-person training
for tier 1 and 2 factories on prevention of hazardous forms
of work for children and adolescents

China

• Unannounced spot checks in factories to detect
forced labor
• In partnership with the Mekong Club, shared e-learning
on the risk of North Korean forced labor to Liaoning,
Jilin, and Shandong provinces
• In partnership with Ethical Trade Initiative (ETI) and
QuizRR, trained select factories and workers on forced
labor risks

• Continue unannounced spot checks
• Further roll out of the e-learning to other provinces
• Develop and execute prevention strategy for all forms
of child labor using education materials prepared
by CCR CSR

India

• Unannounced spot checks in factories and mills to
detect forced labor

• Continue unannounced spot checks, with a focus
on women
• In collaboration with the Mekong Club and United
Nations University, translate, refine and roll-out the
Apprise Audit to factories in South India
• In partnership with Association for Stimulating
Know-how (ASK), undertake factory assessments on
forced labor

Jordan

• ILO/IFC Better Work Jordan (BWJ) Program organized
meetings on responsible recruitment, which led to a
commitment by the BWJ Project Advisory Committee
that no recruitment fees should be paid by workers.
This commitment will be implemented in BWJ factories
starting January 2019

• Further partnership with BWJ to encourage suppliers
to recruit responsibly

Thailand

• Conducted visits to factories to better understand
recruitment practices related to migrant workers
• Partnered with the Mekong Club and United Nations
University to test the Apprise Audit in Thailand

• In collaboration with the Mekong Club and United
Nations University, further refine and roll-out the
Apprise Audit to more factories
• Participate in the Global Forum on Responsible
Recruitment and incorporate learnings

Malaysia

• Partnering with AAFA as it rolls out its Action Plan
on Responsible Recruitment in Malaysia

• Roll out of e-learning tool on modern slavery, with a
strong focus on recruitment
• Conduct unannounced spot checks in factories with a
focus on recruitment practices
• Offer in-person training for suppliers on how to
implement responsible recruitment

7

Disclosure statement on modern slavery
Market

Risk Mitigation and Partners

Future Actions

Taiwan

• Developed e-learning tool on modern slavery, with a
strong focus on recruitment. The tool is currently
being rolled out to all factories in Taiwan
• Partnered with the Research and Communications
Group (RCG) to conduct assessments of recruitment
practices

• Conduct a two-day supplier training with the NGO Verité
to build awareness of the nature, causes, manifestations
and common risks of third-party recruitment and
employment of foreign migrant workers
• Continue to partner with the AAFA as it engages
with key stakeholders on Responsible Recruitment

Turkey

• Conducting semi-announced checks on factories
in Turkey in partnership with ELEVATE

• Continue unannounced spot checks in factories
• Collect more and better data on the impact of the Syrian
refugee crisis on our supply chain and explore
opportunities for industry engagement

Vietnam

• Unannounced spot checks to detect forced labor
• Partnership with the ILO/IFC Better Work Vietnam
(BWV) Program
• Partnered with the Mekong Club and United Nations
University to test Apprise Audit

• Continue unannounced spot checks
• Continue collaboration with Better Work Vietnam and
other stakeholders

Remediation
In 2017, Li & Fung launched its remediation program to continuously improve performance in our supply chain. In
general and when non-compliances are identified through audits, the non-compliance is recorded into a
standardized monitoring system and discussed with the factory during the closing meeting. The factory then
develops a corrective action plan with a root cause analysis and focus on prevention.
When critical or zero-tolerance issues are identified, the factory is required to remediate violations with progress
monitored by Li & Fung or one of our partners (such as Better Work). As modern slavery is both a complex and
serious issue, such cases are generally handled by a specialist third-party that discusses the case with the
factory, provides capacity building and victim assistance, and helps monitor the factory improvement process. If
the violations have not been systematically remediated, business is discontinued after agreeing on a responsible
exit plan.
We have developed remediation guidance on modern slavery in line with the UN Guiding Principles on Business
and Human Rights, as well as the Mekong Club Remediation Toolkit. Remediation guidance includes:
• Information on immediate corrective action to be taken in cases of non-compliance, including providing
assistance to victims and paying back any outstanding wages or fees (where relevant)
• Preventative action, including the use of third-party experts to assist the factory to change management
systems or policies that may have contributed to the violation
• Business consequences as needed related to both the non-compliance and any failure to remediate
In practice, remediating cases of forced labor is challenging given the severity of the issue, the time needed for
sustainable improvement and the need to balance consequences for zero-tolerance findings (termination) with
remediation needs (which may require factory support). In 2018, at least two factories provided compensation to
victims of modern slavery; in first instance by paying back wages owed to workers and in the second case by
returning deposits and identity documents to workers.

8

Disclosure statement on modern slavery
Enabling Factors to Eradicate Modern Slavery
In addition to our due diligence process to identify modern slavery risks, we have also identified two key factors
which help our efforts to identify and eradicate modern slavery.

Leverage
Modern slavery is a global challenge that requires the collaborative efforts of governments, civil society and
business. Despite Li & Fung’s expertise in global supply chains and our global reach, we accept we cannot solve
this problem alone.
We rely on partnerships to build the required leverage to impact this issue. We work closely with organizations
such as the Mekong Club, the Ethical Trade Initiative, Better Work and the American Apparel and Footwear
Association (AAFA) to drive change.

Tracking Progress
As we advance our agenda to abolish modern slavery, we will monitor our progress against the following targets
and report on our progress in our next modern slavery statement:
Category

Indicator

KPI Description

Due diligence

# of countries/regions with proactive
measures taken to identify modern
slavery

We recognize that traditional tools for supply chain due diligence are not always
effective in identifying cases of modern slavery. We will use our compliance and
factory data to proactively identify risk and undertake focused investigations on
modern slavery.

Training

% Li & Fung employees trained

We developed an e-learning on modern slavery, which has been rolled out
to our colleagues. Every employee is required to complete this training so all
relevant decision makers are trained on risks, policies and standards related to
human trafficking and forced labor.

Training

% core factories trained

Our e-learning on modern Slavery has been rolled out to all direct, core factories in
China, Malaysia and Taiwan.

Responsible
recruitment

% core factories implementing
responsible recruitment practices

In line with the AAFA Action Plan, our Responsible Recruitment strategy prioritizes
Taiwan and Malaysia as markets with risk of high recruitment fees. We intend
to support our core factories in these markets to implement responsible
recruitment practices.

Li & Fung will continue to evaluate the effectiveness of our efforts to eradicate modern slavery. We are
committed to expand and look for new industry collaboration and to equip factories in our supply chain with the
necessary tools that help them identify and prevent all forms of modern slavery.

Spencer Fung

William Fung

Group CEO, Li & Fung

Group Chairman, Li & Fung

9

