UK MODERN SLAVERY ACT 2015 STATEMENT
AND
CALIFORNIA TRANSPARENCY IN SUPPLY CHAINS ACT OF 2010 DISCLOSURE
Introduction
Bulgari S.p.A. and all its subsidiaries in the entire world (hereinafter the “Bulgari Group” or the
“Group”) is fully committed to complying with all applicable laws, regulations and national and
international conventions, as well as with best practices, about ethics, human rights and social
responsibility.
On this purpose, this statement is released in compliance with the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015
(Section 54) and the California Transparency in Supply Chains Act of 2010 (SB 657), for the financial
year ending 31 December 2017.
The UK Modern Slavery Act 2015 is designed to tackle slavery in the UK and all over the world.
Section 54 of the UK Modern Slavery Act requires every organization with a total global annual
turnover of £36m that is carrying out a business (or part of a business) in the UK to produce a slavery
and human trafficking statement for each financial year.
On 1 January 2012, the California Transparency in Supply Chains Act of 2010 went into effect in the
State of California, USA. This law is designed to increase the amount of information made available by
manufacturers and retailers regarding their efforts to address the issue of slavery and human trafficking,
thereby allowing consumers to make better and more informed choices regarding the products they buy
and the companies they choose to support.
Modern Slavery includes any form of slavery, servitude, forced or compulsory labour and human
trafficking (collectively, “Modern Slavery”). The disclosure sets out the steps that the Bulgari Group
has taken, and continues to take, to ensure that Modern Slavery is not taking place in its supply chain
and its own business. The statement applies to all the companies of the Bulgari Group.
Organisational structure and supply chain
Today part of the LVMH Group, the Bulgari Group was founded in Rome in 1884 and progressively
imposed itself with its magnificent creations, emblems of the Italian excellence. The international
success made the Bulgari Group evolving into the current dimension of a global and diversified player
in the luxury market, with a retail network in the most exclusive shopping areas worldwide and a
portfolio of products and services ranging from jewels and watches to accessories, perfumes and hotels.
The Bulgari Group supply chain encompasses suppliers and business partners that provide raw
materials for the relevant manufacturing processes and services to run its business. Each Business Unit
(Jewelry; Watches; Accessories; Fragrances; Hotel & Resorts) is responsible for managing relations with
suppliers and business partners, based on the specificity of its activities, processes and geographical
presence.
Finished products are manufactured at both company-owned facilities in Europe (mainly Italy and
Switzerland) and through an external network of suppliers. The supply chain is based on long-standing
relationships that can facilitate a continuous improvement path overtime.
The Bulgari Group is aware of the importance of raw material supply chain. For this purpose, the
Group defined a responsibility program to monitor and manage social and environmental impacts of
procurement practices for key raw materials (gold, diamonds, colored gemstones, leather, precious
skins and packaging), as described hereinafter.
In addition, the Group works with licensees to ensure they apply consistent standards, in alignment
with those applied throughout the rest of the supply chain.

BULGARI SPA
Società a socio unico soggetta ad attività di direzione e coordinamento di LVMH MOËT HENNESSY – LOUIS VUITTON S.E.
Sede Legale in Via dei Condotti 11 – 00187 Roma
Direzione Generale: Lungotevere Marzio, 11 – 00186 Roma – telefono (39) 06 688101 – telefax (39) 06 68810400
Cap. Soc. € 24.500.000,00 i.v. – Registro delle Imprese di Roma n. 2031/59 –.R.E.A. Roma n. 69511 Cod. Fiscale 00388360588 Partita IVA IT00875591000

The Group’s international expansion has developed its geographic footprint worldwide. This generated
other supply chain relationships related to general business operations, including but not limited to
Offices, Directly Operated Stores and Franchisees.
The Bulgari Group continues to communicate its responsible sourcing commitments and principles
designed to prevent Moderns Slavery, in particular, through the Code of Conduct and the Business
Partner & Supplier Code of Conduct. Further details are set out below.
Policies
Bulgari S.p.A. adopted the LVMH Code of Conduct (‘CoC’) in March 2018. The documents constitute
the evolution of the previously existing Code of Ethics. The principles set out in the CoC define an
ethical framework for all the actions of the Group and its staff, providing the foundations for the
corporate culture. The CoC is inspired by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the United
Nations Global Compact, the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and the United Nations
Guidelines on Women’s Empowerment. In particular, the ‘Providing a fulfilling work environment and
valuing talents’ section of the CoC sets the fundamental rights at work principles: elimination of
discrimination with respect to employment and occupation; elimination of all forms of forced and
compulsory labor; effective abolition of child labor; freedom of association and the effective
recognition of the right to collective bargaining.
The Bulgari Group works with business partners & suppliers who agree to comply with the
requirements of the Business Partner & Supplier Code of Conduct (‘BP&SCoC’), approved by Bulgari
S.p.A. in March 2018. The BP&SCoC is based, among others, on the principles stipulated in the
Conventions of the International Labour Organization. Bulgari Group requires its business partners &
suppliers to make their best effort to respect human rights in their conduct as detailed in the ‘Human
Rights’ and ‘Labor Standards and Social Responsibilities’ sections of the document.
The Group is aware of the potential social impacts of its activities connected, in particular, to the
sourcing of raw materials. For this reason, it has defined a responsible sourcing approach to conduct its
business in an ethical way and respecting human rights.
With specific reference to diamonds, the Bulgari Group is committed to acting responsibly engaging
with trusted suppliers based in countries adhering to the Kimberley Process, a joint government,
industry and civil society initiative to stem the flow of conflict diamonds through an international
certification scheme. Moreover, all Bvlgari suppliers are members of trade associations, such as the
World Diamond Council, which aim to implement the Kimberley Process through a self-regulation
system.
As a further action, Bulgari S.p.A. became member of the Responsible Jewellery Council in 2006. In
addition, in December 2011 it achieved the RJC Code of Practices Certification, having adopted the
RJC Standard System in every phase of its jewellery production and processing phase, ensuring full
application of ethical and responsible practices through an independent auditing system. In December
2014 and subsequently in December 2017, Bulgari S.p.A. achieved the renewal of the RJC Code of
Practices Certification, confirming its commitment, in close collaboration with its stakeholder, to
promote responsible and ethical practices within its business operations and core strategy through a
continual dedication to improvement.
In June 2015 Bulgari Gioielli S.p.A. achieved the Chain of Custody Certification (‘RJC CoC’),
subsequently renewed in June 2018, for its gold jewellery products lines. The Chain of Custody
Standard, settled from the Responsible Jewellery Council (RJC) in accordance with the OECD
Guidelines, promotes the usage of precious metals sourced in a responsible way among the whole
supply chain. Aiming to ensure the long-term compliance with RJC CoC Standard provisions, Bulgari
Gioielli S.p.A. has implemented an appropriate internal and external Management System, which
ensures the segregation of RJC CoC certified material in each step of the manufacturing process, from
metal procurement to finished product delivery.
BULGARI SPA
Società a socio unico soggetta ad attività di direzione e coordinamento di LVMH MOËT HENNESSY – LOUIS VUITTON S.E.
Sede Legale in Via dei Condotti 11 – 00187 Roma
Direzione Generale: Lungotevere Marzio, 11 – 00186 Roma – telefono (39) 06 688101 – telefax (39) 06 68810400
Cap. Soc. € 24.500.000,00 i.v. – Registro delle Imprese di Roma n. 2031/59 –.R.E.A. Roma n. 69511 Cod. Fiscale 00388360588 Partita IVA IT00875591000

The Bulgari Group is committed to make the best effort to strength systems and controls for the
respect of human rights across the supply chain. Therefore, the Corporate Social Responsibility
Department in strict collaboration with the Purchasing Department, regularly meets to assess the
adequacy of the procedural framework as well as to identify opportunities for continuous improvement.
Assessing risk within the supply chain
In association with LVMH programs and the principles promoted by the Responsible Jewellery
Council, Bulgari S.p.A. monitors social and human right risks across the supply chain.
For this purpose, Bulgari S.p.A. has put in place a Suppliers Risk Management Process, constituted by
the following three steps: 1) supplier risk assessment; 2) social & environmental audit to suppliers; 3)
follow up. Each supplier included in the risk assessment compiles a CSR self-assessment questionnaire
with a focus, among others, on the following topics: child & forced labour; freedom of association;
discrimination; disciplinary and grievance procedures; hours of work; remuneration and general
employment terms.
Furthermore, during 2017 a risk mapping activity at Operations and Supply Chain level started as part
of a broader Ethics & Compliance project launched by LVMH. Risk mapping results highlight Bvlgari’s
exposure to Human Rights risks and constitute, where necessary, an input for the definition of
mitigation action plans.
Due Diligence and supplier audit
Bulgari S.p.A. defines on an annual basis a supplier audit plan for each Business Unit, based on the
results of the risk assessment analysis. Bvlgari has included in agreements with suppliers the right to
visit suppliers’ factories. Audits can be announced, semi-announced or not announced and are based on
the most recognized standards: SMETA (Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit); Social Accountability
SA 8000; ISO 14001; RJC Code Of Practices; RJC Chain Of Custody. In case of non-conformities,
every effort is made to work with the supplier to implement corrective actions.
Bulgari S.p.A. is currently working to build and implement new policies and supply chain tools to
continue its deepening commitment to responsible sourcing with a specific focus on Due Diligence
methodology for diamonds and colored gemstones. On this purpose Bulgari S.p.A. is an active player
of the RJC Standards Committee and of the Colored Gemstones Working Group. This group brings
together luxury jewellery brands to better understand and manage the risks and opportunities for
positive environmental and social impact in the sourcing of colored gemstones.
Training, awareness and performance indicators
As holding company, Bulgari S.p.A. is committed to raise awareness around the organization on
policies and principles for the respect of Human Rights and Labour Standards. This ongoing process
starts with dedicated training initiatives. All employees have the opportunity to access the LVMH
Ethics and Compliance site, including a number of tools and practical information to help promoting
exemplary behavior in the day-to-day conduct of business activities. An e-learning module on the Code
of Conduct and its main principles is available to all employees in 10 languages. Dedicated training
modules on more technical topics like the RJC certification scheme and the Kimberley Process are
offered to all employees, when joining the company, as part of their onboarding training and are
available through the dedicated e-learning platform.
The Group promotes a culture of dialogue and transparency. An internal alert system is also available
to all employees for the reporting of serious breach of the principles defined by the LVMH Code of
Conduct.
Ongoing awareness activities are also in place with a focus on suppliers and business partners that have
been engaged through audit activities. In this case, Bvlgari provides ongoing, demand-based support to
address non-conformities or to boost further the social performance of its suppliers.
BULGARI SPA
Società a socio unico soggetta ad attività di direzione e coordinamento di LVMH MOËT HENNESSY – LOUIS VUITTON S.E.
Sede Legale in Via dei Condotti 11 – 00187 Roma
Direzione Generale: Lungotevere Marzio, 11 – 00186 Roma – telefono (39) 06 688101 – telefax (39) 06 68810400
Cap. Soc. € 24.500.000,00 i.v. – Registro delle Imprese di Roma n. 2031/59 –.R.E.A. Roma n. 69511 Cod. Fiscale 00388360588 Partita IVA IT00875591000

Bulgari S.p.A. is constantly monitoring the impact and effectiveness of actions and measures in place
for a responsible business conduct. In this regard, the Group has defined internal KPIs on the number
of audits to be conducted on suppliers and the related follow-up actions, where necessary.
Outlook
The Group has an ongoing commitment to conducting its business in a socially responsible manner
and to prohibiting Moderns Slavery in the ordinary course of business. This commitment extends
beyond the confines of the company and encompasses the promotion of ethical standards and socially
responsible management practices throughout its entire supply chain.
The Group will work proactively for the continuous enhancement of responsible business practices by
searching new ways to encourage the respect of human rights, a shared approach with suppliers and
business partners as well as an advanced system of internal procedures.

Approved by the Board of Directors on October 16, 2018 and signed on its behalf by:
Jean-Christophe Babin
Chief Executive Officer
Bulgari S.p.A.

BULGARI SPA
Società a socio unico soggetta ad attività di direzione e coordinamento di LVMH MOËT HENNESSY – LOUIS VUITTON S.E.
Sede Legale in Via dei Condotti 11 – 00187 Roma
Direzione Generale: Lungotevere Marzio, 11 – 00186 Roma – telefono (39) 06 688101 – telefax (39) 06 68810400
Cap. Soc. € 24.500.000,00 i.v. – Registro delle Imprese di Roma n. 2031/59 –.R.E.A. Roma n. 69511 Cod. Fiscale 00388360588 Partita IVA IT00875591000

