Berluti

Paris

Bottier deputs 1895

BERLUTI SA
Anti Modern Slavery Statement 2017

Introduction

Since the publication of its first Anti Modern Slavery statement in June 2017, BERLUTI SA 
and its affiliated companies (together ?the BERLUTI Group?) have continued to focus on extending their
work to combat modern slavery into their sourcing and operations chains, notably via the Suppliers? Code
of Conduct, as well as on improving their processes in place to monitor and assess their suppliers? practices.

Business

BERLUTI, the French parent company of the BERLUTI Group is closely linked to the LVMH Mo?t
Hennessy Louis- Vuitton SE Group.

BERLUTI sells luxury and high quality products under the BERLUTI trademark as shoes, leather goods,
bags, accessories, ready-to-wear, etc. (the ?Products?), to clients in Europe, including in the United
Kingdom, as well as in many other countties worldwide.

Supply chains

Products and packaging are mainly manufactured through industrial subsidiaries. BERLUTI
purchases directly from local suppliers, services and products necessaty to run its business.

Policies and Practices

commitment is to act with integrity in all its business dealings and to promote ethical conduct,
to enhance compliance with applicable laws and to provide guidance with respect to business conduct. It
has a number of policies that are relevant to this commitment, which set out what BERLUTI expects from
its employees, contractors, internal business and its external suppliers and their supply chain.

BERLUTI engages in multiple internal and external actions to gauge and combat the risk of modern slavery,
including human trafficking occurring in its supply chains and to assess and manage potential risks related
to its supply chain. due diligence includes internal risk assessments utilizing information
gathered from organizations with expertise in social compliance issues, other companies, and vatious
additional external resources.

Key policies and practices are:

1. BERLUTI Suppliers' Code of Conduct

BERLUTI Suppliers' Code of Conduct reflects our commitment to acting ethically and with integrity in all
out business relationships and to implementing and enforcing effective systems and controls to ensure
Modern Slavery is not taking place in BERLUTI or its supply chains.

BERLUTI requires its suppliers to engage in and promote ethical conduct, comply with all applicable laws,
rules and regulations in their own atea and act responsibly, with due care, competence and diligence when
dealing with us.

BERLUTI ensures that BERLUTI Group requires its suppliers to share its commitments and act in full
compliance with the relevant laws, including all national, local and international laws relating to the
management of their businesses.

BERLUTI, soci?t? anonyme au capital de 4 135 860 
Si?ge social 120, rue du Faubourg Saint-Honor? 75008 PARIS RCS Paris 784 320 921
N.A.F. 524 FR 19 784 320 921
Berluti
Paris

Bottier deputs 1895

BERLUTI requires its suppliers to seek approval before subcontracting any part of their supply chain
process and BERLUTI Group?s approval is subject to acceptance by the subcontractor of the BERLUTI
Suppliers' Code of Conduct and all other applicable conditions that BERLUTI Group determines.

BERLUTI requires its suppliers to sign the BERLUTI Suppliers' Code of Conduct.

This Suppliers' Code of Conduct was developed and updated in December 2017. It is issued to current
suppliers and form part of new agreements with suppliers. In the Suppliers' Code of Conduct, BERLUTI
confirms its ambition to uphold ethical standards within its supply chains and its requirement that its
suppliers do the same. In the event of suspected or known noncompliance, the Suppliers' Code of Conduct
provides BERLUTI with the ability to take remedial action and could result in terminating the relationship
with that supplier.

2. Audits

BERLUTT conducts audits of certain finished goods vendors and materials vendors to evaluate their
compliance with various regulations and BERLUTI's own policies and procedures. BERLUTI engages
third-party compliance fitms to perform announced, semi-announced, or unannounced assessments of
these vendors, and following audit results, the vendors are required to address any non-compliance issues
identified during an audit or re-audit. A vendor's failure to address and correct such deficiencies will result
in a re-evaluation of business relationship with the vendor, possible remedial action being
required or the termination of the business relationship.

3. Supplier and Contractor due diligence

BERLUTIT has been reviewing its suppliers and a lot of its suppliers are carefully chosen for the entire
BERLUTI Group by BERLUTI.

Prior to entering into any new contractual relationship with a supplier or contractor, BERLUTI requires a
supplier or contractor to commit to comply with the Suppliers? Code of Conduct.

BERLUTI reserves the right to check adherence of BERLUTI Group and its suppliers and contractors to
the Suppliers' Code of Conduct and to conduct compliance audits at any time. Upon reasonable request,
BERLUTI can require BERLUTT Group and its suppliers and contractors to supply requested information
and grant access to BERLUTI representatives to verify compliance with the requirements of the BERLUTI
Suppliers? Code of Conduct. Suppliers and contractors are obliged to keep proper records to prove
compliance with the BERLUTI Suppliers' Code of Conduct and to provide access to complete, original,
and accurate files to BERLUTI representatives.

Upon reasonable request, BERLUTI suppliers and contractors must improve and correct any deficiency
discovered during such audits.

BERLUTI shall use its reasonable endeavours to ensure that all BERLUTI Group supplier and contractor
template contracts contain clauses that require them to adopt similar anti-modern slavery standards and
practices.

4. Staff/Employees

?Training and Awareness

BERLUTI provides training both to certain employees with direct responsibility for supply chain
management and certain vendors. The training, is focused on raising awareness regarding the risks of
modern slavery occurring in the business or its supply chains and on preventing, detecting, and responding
to allegations related to these and other related issues.

BERLUTI, soci?t? anonyme au capital de 4 135 860 
Si?ge social 120, rue du Faubourg Saint-Honor? 75008 PARIS RCS Paris 784 320 921
N.A.F. 524 TVA FR 19 784 320 921
Berluti
Paris

Bottier depuis 1895

The purpose of BERLUTTs training program is to ensure that BERLUTI is promoting a working
environment where all individuals are equipped with the ability to identify unethical or potentially unethical
practices as they perform their day-to-day work.

Employees? Code of Conduct and Whistleblowing Policy

BERLUTTs Employees Code of Conduct demonstrates ambition for its staff to act with, and
commit to, integrity in the conduct of its business in an environment that is free from all form of unethical
behaviour including forced or compulsory labour, child labour, slavery, human trafficking, discrimination,
cotruption and harassment and therefore provides a common framework of values and principles to
provide guidelines to its staff.

BERLUTT is taking steps to put in place a whistleblowing policy and confidential helpline to encourage
staff to identify and report concerns through the appropriate channels.

This statement is made pursuant to Section 54(1) of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and constitutes
BERLUTTs Anti-Modern Slavery statement for the financial year ending 31 December 2017.

The Board of Directors of BERLUTI has approved this statement and it has been duly signed by the
following director:

ANTOINE ARNADLT
Director of BERLUTI
June 30, 2018

BERLUTI, soci?t? anonyme au capital de 4 135 860 
Si?ge social 120, rue du Faubourg Saint-Honor? 75008 PARIS RCS Paris 784 320 921
N.A.F. 524 TVA FR 19 784 320 921
