Modern Slavery Act Transparency Statement
Boodles
(Boodle & Dunthorne)
November 1, 2018
Boodles, founded in 1798, is a sixth generation family-owned and run fine jewellery designer and retailer.
It operates eight stores in the United Kingdom and one in Ireland. The company only operates retail
stores and does not own any part of the supply chain. Boodles is committed to upholding high ethical
standards and human rights.
Diamonds are the largest material that Boodles sources by both volume and by value. Boodles sources
semi-finished materials - primarily cut and polished diamonds - from a select group of suppliers with
whom the company has long-standing relationships. Boodles jewellery products are crafted in a small
selection of workshops for Boodles retail stores.
In 2018 Boodles launched a new Code of Conduct, publicly available on the company website, which
covers expectations of labour rights and human rights in its supply chains, including a provision on forced,
compulsory, trafficked and bonded labour (including the retention of identity or travel documents).
Boodles requires its suppliers to abide by terms and conditions, which include the application of the Code
of Conduct within their respective business and supply chains. Boodles has also introduced an Exclusion
Policy to restrict sourcing from what are deemed as very high-risk countries in respect to human rights
and/or corruption.
Boodles has engaged with all of its existing key suppliers to assess risks in their respective supply chains in
2018 and will continue to do so on an annual basis. For new suppliers Boodles requires that they provide
information about their supply chain, assess human rights and labour rights risks (including modern
slavery), and report any present or future risks to Boodles. Boodles reserves the right to conduct audits of
all of its suppliers.
Future plans include: training of Boodles staff, and annual reporting on all of the company’s efforts
related to human rights risks and due diligence.

Michael Wainwright

Nicholas Wainwright

Managing Director

Chairman

Jody Wainwright

James Amos

Director

Director

