DEWHIRST
Est.1880
Modern Slavery

Statement

Introduction from the CEO

Dewhirst Group is strictly committed towards following the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and does
not support, or condone any sort of slavery practice. We have a zero-tolerance approach to
any form of modern slavery. We are committed to acting ethically and with integrity and
transparency in all business dealings and to putting effective systems and controls in place to
safeguard against any form of modern slavery taking place within the business or our supply
chain.

Dewhirst Group Structure Supply Chain

The Dewhirst story dates back to the nineteenth century and was founded by Isaac Dewhirst
who was a leader in innovation. Isaac Dewhirst quickly became a preferential and significant
supplier for the Marks and Spencer chain, but always retained the independence of his own
business. Today Dewhirst honours our history with a commitment to creative and technical
advancement, coupled with competitive quality and value. We have established Manufacturing,
Laundry and Sourcing offices in Bangladesh, Cambodia, Indonesia, China, and Sri Lanka with
manpower over 15000 internationally.

Our Policies on Slavery Human Trafficking

Dewhirst Group ensures zero tolerance of modern slavery or human trafficking in our supply
chains or any part of our business throughout the world.

All the employees of Dewhirst Group are expected to maintain and work within the company
rules and regulations as well as the laws and regulations of the countries where it does business.
The company pursues the highest standards of ethical behavior in dealing with its employees,
customers, suppliers, contractors, business partners, and or any other stakeholders.

The suppliers to Dewhirst are required to lawfully agree to the terms and conditions of the
Sourcing Policy of Dewhirst Group. The sourcing policy contains Ethical code of conduct and
other requirements and conditions such as whereby factories producing the goods must ensure
that employment is freely chosen, child labour is prohibited, do not practice coercive, abusive
and exploitative behavior and no harsh or inhuman treatment will be adopted.

Due Diligence Process

We have established standard policies and procedures to avoid any kind of modern day slavery
practices. To uphold these standard policies and procedures we have a qualified management
team. However, to ensure effectiveness of our management system we have a monitoring
system of announced, unannounced, internal, second and third party auditing through our

supply chain. The identified potential risks are placed to a remediation plan to address them
best.

Training
The policy is communicated with all employees within Dewhirst through Training Awareness.
It is also communicated to all suppliers, contractors, business partners or any stakeholders

about zero tolerance approach to Anti-Slavery policy.
KPIs/Effectiveness

Managing Director/ The board of directors has overall responsibility for ensuring this policy
complies with our legal and ethical obligations, and that all those under our control comply

with it.

All senior management have the primary and day-to-day responsibility for implementing this
policy, monitoring its use and effectiveness, dealing with any queries about it, and auditing
internal control systems and procedures to ensure they are effective.

Management at all levels are responsible for ensuring those reporting to them understand and
comply with this policy and are given adequate and regular training on it and the issue of anti-

slavery in supply chains.
Breaches of the Policy
Any employee who breaches this policy will face disciplinary action.

The relationship may terminate with other individuals and organizations working on our behalf
if they breach this policy.

Anthony Wood
Chief Executive Officer (CEO)
3rd December 2018
