Cartier Limited Modern Slavery Statement 2018

This statement has been published in accordance with the Modern Slavery Act 2015. It sets out the
steps that Cartier Limited (?Cartier?) have taken during the financial year ending 31 March 2018 to
prevent modern slavery and human trafficking in our supply chains or within any part of our business.

This statement has been approved by the Board of Cartier.

Cartier has a zero tolerance approach to modern slavery and we are committed to acting ethically and
with integrity in all our business dealings. We recognise that no supply chain is without risk of modern
slavery and it is our responsibility to ensure we understand these risks and work together with our
suppliers, including intra-Group suppliers, to mitigate them.

Our Business

Cartier sells jewellery, watches, leather goods, writing instruments and other luxury goods through its
own boutiques in London and acts as an agent selling watches and accessories to an authorised dealer
distribution network in the UK and Ireland. Cartier also manufactures and repairs jewellery in the UK.

All finished goods are sourced from within the Richemont Group (?Group?).

As a member of the Group, Cartier adheres to Group policies, procedures and standards relating to
the management of its supply chain and its general business conduct. Details of the Group?s business
governance and Corporate Social Responsibility policies, which are regularly monitored and updated,
can be found at:


Our Supply Chain Relationships

Cartier has no direct global third party supplier relationships for finished goods. Such goods are
supplied to Cartier intra-Group.

Our Policies and Processes

When taking on new suppliers, the Group requires all suppliers (whether of goods or services) to sign
its terms and conditions of purchase and other documents including the Richemont Supplier Code of
Conduct (?Code of Conduct?).

The Code of Conduct covers, amongst other matters, the following areas:

- No forced employment not using forced labour and not using employment where terms are
not voluntary;

- Healthy and safe working conditions providing a healthy and safe working environment in
accordance with applicable laws and regulations;

- Wages and working hours complying with local legislation on minimum wages, working
hours and employee benefits;

- Freedom of association allowing workers to associate with lawful and peaceful workers?
associations;

- No discrimination not subjecting people to discrimination based on factors including
ethnicity, age, religion and sexual orientation, amongst others;

- No child labour not employing people under the age of 15 or younger than the age for
completing compulsory education;
- No use of corporal punishment and not subjecting people to harassment, violence or
intimidation;

- Responsible environmental management fully complying with local legislation, industry
regulations and the Richemont Environmental Code of Conduct;

- Grievance Procedure and Whistleblowing allowing workers to report actual or suspected
misconduct without fear or reprisal.

A full copy of the Code of Conduct, which was updated in 2017, is available at:

Due diligence and audits of suppliers are carried out at Group level.

Our Training

The Group and Cartier continue to take steps to increase employee awareness and engagement
regarding slavery and human trafficking issues. Richemont?s Corporate Social Responsibility
Guidelines (?Guidelines?), which articulate the standards the Group expects its managers, employees
and suppliers to uphold, specifically articulate the Group?s zero-tolerance policy regarding forced
labour.

A copy of the Guidelines can be found at:

corporate social responsbilitiy guidelines
based on jul08 version.pdf

Our Employees

Cartier and the Group have a whistleblowing policy and a hotline for employees to voice any concerns
they may have including concerns about any part of the Cartier business.

Cartier are committed to maintaining and improving systems and processes in order to eliminate all
forms of forced and compulsory labour within our supply chain and our business. Cartier continues
to review its policies and processes to ensure the highest standards in its supply chain, as expected by
customers, the companies with which it works and in accordance with the requirements of its Group.

Approval by Cartier Limited?s Board of Directors

certify that the information contained in the above statement has been approved by the Board of
Directors.

 
 

Director, on behalf of Cartier Limited
