Richemont UK Limited

The Modern Slavery Act 2015 Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement

This statement is made pursuant to Section 54 of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and sets out
the steps Richemont UK Limited (?the Company?) has taken to ensure that slavery and human
trafficking is not taking place within its supply chains nor within any part of our business. This
statement is for the financial year ending 31 March 2016.

The Company has a zero tolerance approach to modern slavery and we are committed to acting
ethically and with integrity in all our business dealings.

Our Business

The Company sells jewellery and other luxury goods through its own boutiques in London and acts as
an agent selling watches and accessories to an authorised dealer distribution network in the UK and
lreland.

All finished goods are sourced from within the Richemont Group (?Group?).

As amember of the Group, the Company adheres to Group policies, procedures and standards relating
to the management of its supply chain and the conduct of its business generally. Details of the
Group?s business governance and corporate social responsibility policies can be at


Our Supply Chain Relationships
The Company has no direct global third party supplier relationships for finished goods.
Our Policies and Processes

During the procurement process, suppliers will be issued with terms and conditions of purchase which
are further supplemented by the Richemont Supplier Code of Conduct (?Code of Conduct?) and other
policies issued by our Group.

The Code of Conduct includes an endorsement of International Labour Organisation Conventions, the
Universal Declaration of Human Rights and other internationally recognised labour practice standards.

A copy of the Code of Conduct is available at:
code of conduct 2015.pdf
Due diligence and audits of suppliers are carried out at Group level.

Our Training

The Group and the Company are undertaking steps to increase employee awareness and compliance
regarding slavery and human trafficking issues. Richemont?s Corporate Social Responsibility
Guidelines (?Guidelines?), which articulate the standards the Group expects its managers, employees
and suppliers to uphold, specifically articulate the Group?s zero-tolerance policy regarding forced
labour.

 

 
A copy of the Guidelines can be found at:

social responsbilitiy guidelines
based on jul08 version.pdf

 

Our Employees

The Company and the Group have a whistleblowing policy and a hotline for employees to voice any
concerns they may have including concerns about slavery and human trafficking within the Company?s
supply chain or any part of the Company?s business.

The Company are committed to maintaining and improving systems and processes in order to
eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour within our supply chain and our business. The
Company will continue to review its policies and processes to ensure the highest standards in its supply
chain, as expected by customers, the companies with which it works and in accordance with the
requirements of its Group.

Approval by Richemont UK Limited?s Board of Directors

certify that the information contained in the above statement has been approved by the Board of
Directors.

senealc dA Leto Director, on behalf of Richemont UK Limited
