Cartier Limited

The Modern Slavery Act 2015 Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement

This statement is made pursuant to Section 54 of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and sets out
the steps Cartier Limited (?Cartier?) has taken to ensure that slavery and human trafficking is not
taking place within its supply chains nor within any part of our business. This statement is for the
financial year ending 31 March 2016.

Cartier has a zero tolerance approach to modern slavery and we are committed to acting ethically and
with integrity in all our business dealings.

Our Business

Cartier sells jewellery, watches, leather goods, writing instruments and other luxury goods through its
own boutiques in London and acts as an agent selling watches and accessories to an authorised dealer
distribution network in the UK and Ireland. Cartier also manufactures and repairs jewellery in the
UK.

All finished goods are sourced from within the Richemont Group (?Group?).

As a member of the Group, Cartier adheres to Group policies, procedures and standards relating to
the management of its supply chain and the conduct of its business generally. Details of the Group?s
business governance and_ corporate? social responsibility policies can be at


 

Our Supply Chain Relationships
Cartier has no direct global third party supplier relationships for finished goods.
Our Policies and Processes

During the procurement process, suppliers will be issued with terms and conditions of purchase which
are further supplemented by the Richemont Supplier Code of Conduct (?Code of Conduct?) and other
policies issued by our Group.

The Code of Conduct includes an endorsement of International Labour Organisation Conventions, the
Universal Declaration of Human Rights and other internationally recognised labour practice standards.

A copy of the Code of Conduct is available at:

code of conduct 2015.pdf

 

Due diligence and audits of suppliers are carried out at Group level.
Our Training

The Group and Cartier are undertaking steps to increase employee awareness and compliance
regarding slavery and human trafficking issues. Richemont?s Corporate Social Responsibility
Guidelines (?Guidelines?), which articulate the standards the Group expects its managers, employees
and suppliers to uphold, specifically articulate the Group?s zero-tolerance policy regarding forced
labour.
A copy of the Guidelines can be found at:
corporate social responsbilitiy guidelines
based on jul08 version.pdf

Our Employees

Cartier and the Group have a whistleblowing policy and a hotline for employees to voice any concerns
they may have including concerns about slavery and human trafficking within Cartier?s supply chain
or any other part of the Cartier business.

Cartier are committed to maintaining and improving systems and processes in order to eliminate all
forms of forced and compulsory labour within our supply chain and our business. Cartier will continue
to review its policies and processes to ensure the highest standards in its supply chain, as expected by
customers, the companies with which it works and in accordance with the requirements of its Group.

Approval by Cartier Limited?s Board of Directors

certify that the information contained in the above statement has been approved by the Board of
Directors.

 
 

Sig wees Director, on behalf of Cartier Limited
