Richemont UK Limited

The Modern Slavery Act 2015 Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement

This statement is made pursuant to Section 54 of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and sets out
the steps Richemont UK Limited (?Richemont?) has taken to ensure that slavery and human trafficking
is not taking place within its supply chains nor within any part of our business. This statement is for
the financial year ending 31 March 2017.

Richemont has a zero tolerance approach to modern slavery and we are committed to acting ethically
and with integrity in all our business dealings.

Our Business

Richemont sells jewellery, watches, leather goods, writing instruments and other luxury goods
through its own boutiques in London and acts as an agent selling watches and accessories to an
authorised dealer distribution network in the UK and Ireland. |Richemont also manufactures and
repairs jewellery in the UK.

All finished goods are sourced from within the Richemont Group (?Group?).

As a member of the Group, Richemont adheres to Group policies, procedures and standards relating
to the management of its supply chain and the conduct of its business generally. Details of the
Group?s business governance and corporate social responsibility policies can be at


 

Our Supply Chain Relationships
Richemont has no direct global third party supplier relationships for finished goods.
Our Policies and Processes

During the procurement process, suppliers will be issued with terms and conditions of purchase which
are further supplemented by the Richemont Supplier Code of Conduct (?Code of Conduct?) and other
policies issued by our Group.

The Code of Conduct includes an endorsement of International Labour Organisation Conventions, the
Universal Declaration of Human Rights and other internationally recognised labour practice standards.

A copy of the Code of Conduct is available at:
code of conduct_2015.pdf
Due diligence and audits of suppliers are carried out at Group level.

Our Training

The Group and Richemont continue to take steps to increase employee awareness and compliance
regarding slavery and human trafficking issues. Richemont?s Corporate Social Responsibility
Guidelines (?Guidelines?), which articulate the standards the Group expects its managers, employees
and suppliers to uphold, specifically articulate the Group?s zero-tolerance policy regarding forced
labour.
A copy of the Guidelines can be found at:
corporate social responsbilitiy guidelines
based on jul08 version.pdf

 

Our Employees

Richemont and the Group have a whistleblowing policy and a hotline for employees to voice any
concerns they may have including concerns about slavery and human trafficking within Richemont?s
supply chain or any other part of the Richemont business.

Richemont are committed to maintaining and improving systems and processes in order to eliminate
all forms of forced and compulsory labour within our supply chain and our business. Richemont will
continue to review its policies and processes to ensure the highest standards in its supply chain, as
expected by customers, the companies with which it works and in accordance with the requirements
of its Group.

Approval by Richemont UK Limited?s Board of Directors

certify that the information contained in the above statement has been approved by the Board of
Directors.

wee. Director, on behalf of Richemont UK Limited

 
