Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement relating to the financial year ended 31 December 2017
Introduction

This statement is made pursuant to Section 54 of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and sets out the
additional steps LVMH Watch Jewellery (UK) has taken during its financial year ending
31 December 2017 to ensure that slavery, servitude, forced or compulsory labour, and human
trafficking (collectively, "Modern Slavery") is not taking place in any part of its business or in its supply
chains.

WJ UK is committed to improving its practices to tackle modern slavery within the organisation and
its supply chains.

Business

WJ UK is a subsidiary of LVMH Swiss Manufactures S.A., which is part of the LVMH Mo?t Hennessy
Louis-Vuitton SE Group.

WJ UK distributes and repairs Tag Heuer and Hublot watches in the UK Ireland and the Channel
Islands. Tag Heuer and Hublot are among the most iconic watch brands worldwide.

Policies and Practices

WJ is committed to act with integrity in all its business dealings and to promote ethical conduct,
to enhance compliance with applicable laws and to provide guidance with respect to business conduct.
It has a number of policies that are relevant to this commitment, which set out what WJ UK expects
from its employees, internal business and its external suppliers.

Key Policies rolled out:

1.LVMH Watch Jewellery (UK) Suppliers' Code of Conduct ("Suppliers' Code of Conduct")
(available upon request)

WJ UK expects its suppliers to share its commitments and act in full compliance with the
relevant laws, including all national, local and international laws relating to the management
of their businesses.

WJ UK is to require its suppliers to seek approval before subcontracting any part of their supply
chain process and WJ approval is subject to acceptance by the subcontractor of the
Suppliers' Code of Conduct and all other applicable conditions that WJ UK determines.

2.LVMH Watch Jewellery (UK) Anti-Modern Slavery Policy Employee Code of Conduct
(available upon request)

WJ Anti-modern slavery Policy reflects its commitment to acting ethically and with
integrity in all business relationships and to implementing and enforcing effective systems and
controls to ensure slavery and human trafficking is not taking place anywhere in its supply
chains.

WJ UK expects its employees and suppliers to engage in and promote honest and ethical
conduct, comply with all applicable laws, rules and regulations in their own area and act
responsibly, with due care, competence and diligence when dealing with colleagues,
customers, suppliers, agents and intermediaries.

The LVMH Watch Jewellery (UK) Code of Conduct reiterates the LVMH Code of Conduct
and commitment to act to the highest standards of integrity, respect and engagement in its
behaviours and in the way that they conduct business every day, everywhere.
Supplier and Contractor Due Diligence

WJ UK has been carefully reviewing its suppliers and some suppliers are carefully chosen for the entire
group by the parent company.

Prior to entering into any new contractual relationship with a supplier or contractor, WJ UK requires
suppliers and contractors to satisfy that they are complying with the updated LVMH WJ UK Suppliers?
Code of Conduct. This supplier code of conduct not only makes reference to the Modern Slavery Act
2015 but also refers to key principles that highlight suppliers? responsibilities towards employees, their
environmental impact and working methods.

WJ UK reserves the right to check adherence of its suppliers and contractors to the principles set out
in the Suppliers' Code of Conduct and to conduct compliance audits at any time without notice. Upon
reasonable request, WJ UK suppliers and contractors shall supply the necessary information and grant
access to WJ UK representatives to verify compliance with the requirements of this Code. Suppliers
and contractors shall further keep proper records to prove compliance with this Code and provide
access to complete, original, and accurate files to WJ UK representatives.

Upon reasonable request, WJ UK suppliers and contractors must improve and correct any deficiency
discovered during any such audits.

WJ UK shall use its reasonable endeavours to ensure that all WJ UK supplier and contractor template
contracts contain clauses requiring WJ suppliers and contractors to adopt similar anti-modern
slavery standards and practices.

Training and Awareness

WJ UK will conduct regular training for its employees to ensure legal and human compliance, the first
of these training sessions already having taken place in 2018. The training enables WJ UK to reduce
business risk of non-compliance through efficient processes and reliable data and reporting. All
documentation, policies and updates are provided for easy access via the employee portal for all
employees.

It is mandatory for all WJ UK employees to attend these training sessions and to familiarise themselves
with this statement. Such training will form part of the induction process for new employees and the
statement will be added to the employee handbook. WJ aim is to eliminate any risk of Modern
Slavery in its business operations and in its supply chains.

This statement is made pursuant to Section 54(1) of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and constitutes WJ
slavery and human trafficking statement for the financial year ending 31 December 2017.

The Board of Directors of WJ UK has approved this statement and it has been duly signed by the
following director:

USs 

Robert Diver
Director
LVMH Watch Jewellery (UK) 

Date: 14 August 2018
