LVMH

WATCHES JEWELLERY

Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement relating to the financial year ended 31 December 2016
Introduction

This statement is made pursuant to Section 54 of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and sets out the steps LVMH
Watch Jewellery (UK) has taken during its financial year ending 31 December 2016 to ensure
that slavery, servitude, forced or compulsory labour, and human trafficking (collectively, "Modern Slavery") is
not taking place in any part of its business or in its supply chains.

WJ UK is committed to improving its practices to tackle modern slavery within the organisation and its supply
chains.

Business

WJ UK is a subsidiary of LVMH Swiss Manufactures S.A., which is part of the LVMH Mo?t Hennessy Louis-
Vuitton SE Group.

WJ UK distribute and repair Tag Heuer and Hublot watches in the UK Ireland and the Channel Islands. Tag
Heuer and Hublot are among the most iconic watch brands worldwide.

Policies and Practices

WJ is committed to act with integrity in all its business dealings and to promote ethical conduct, to
enhance compliance with applicable laws and to provide guidance with respect to business conduct. It has a
number of policies that are relevant to this commitment, which set out what WJ UK expects from its
employees, internal business and its external suppliers.

Key Policies to be rolled out:

1.Revised LVMH Watch Jewellery (UK) Suppliers' Code of Conduct ("Suppliers' Code of Conduct")
(available upon request)

WJ UK expects its suppliers to share its commitments and act in full compliance with the relevant laws,
including all national, local and international laws relating to the management of their businesses.

WJ UK is to require its suppliers to seek approval before subcontracting any part of their supply chain
process and WJ approval is subject to acceptance by the subcontractor of the Suppliers' Code of
Conduct and all other applicable conditions that WJ UK determines.

2. LVMH Watch Jewellery (UK) Anti-Modern Slavery Policy Employee Code of Conduct
(available upon request)

WJ Anti-modern slavery Policy reflects its commitment to acting ethically and with integrity in all
business relationships and to implementing and enforcing effective systems and controls to ensure
slavery and human trafficking is not taking place anywhere in its supply chains.

LVMH WATCH JEWELLERY (UK) LTD.
3-5 IVES STREET, SOUTH KENSINGTON, LONDON SW3 2ND
TEL: +44 (0)207 808 8220
REGISTERED OFFICE: 16-18 HARCOURT STREET, WORSLEY, MANCHESTER M28 3GN
REG. NO. 1620385 VAT NO. 588 6104 08
LVMH

WATCHES JEWELLERY

WJ UK expects its employees and suppliers to engage in and promote honest and ethical conduct,
comply with all applicable laws, rules and regulations in their own area and act responsibly, with due
care, competence and diligence when dealing with colleagues, customers, suppliers, agents and
intermediaries.

The LVMH Watch Jewellery (UK) Code of Conduct reiterates the LVMH Code of Conduct and
commitment to act to the highest standards of integrity, respect and engagement in its behaviours
and in the way that they conduct business every day, everywhere.

Supplier and Contractor Due Diligence

WJ UK has been carefully reviewing its suppliers and a lot of its suppliers are carefully chosen for the entire
group by the parent company.

Moreover, a new action is to be put in place prior to engaging into any new contractual relationship with a
supplier or contractor. WJ UK requires suppliers and contractors to satisfy that they are complying with the
Suppliers? Code of Conduct.

WJ UK reserves the right to check adherence of its suppliers and contractors to the principles set out in the
Suppliers' Code of Conduct and to conduct compliance audits at any time without notice. Upon reasonable
request, WJ UK suppliers and contractors shall supply the necessary information and grant access to WJ UK
representatives to verify compliance with the requirements of this Code. Suppliers and contractors shall
further keep proper records to prove compliance with this Code and provide access to complete, original, and
accurate files to WJ UK representatives.

Upon reasonable request, WJ UK suppliers and contractors must improve and correct any deficiency
discovered during any such audits.

WJ UK shall use its reasonable endeavours to ensure that all WJ UK supplier and contractor template contracts
contain clauses requiring WJ suppliers and contractors to adopt similar anti-modern slavery standards
and practices.

Training and Awareness

WJ UK will conduct regular training for its employees to ensure legal and human compliance. The training
enables WJ UK to reduce business risk of non-compliance through efficient processes and reliable data and
reporting. A!l documentation, policies and updates are provided for easy access via the employee portal for
all employees.

It will be mandatory for all WJ UK employees to familiarise themselves with this statement and will form part
of the induction training process for new employees. WJ aim is to eliminate any risk of Modern Slavery
in its business operations and in its supply chains.

LVMH WATCH JEWELLERY (UK) LTD.
3-5 IVES STREET, SOUTH KENSINGTON, LONDON SW3 2ND
TEL: +44 (0)207 808 8220
REGISTERED OFFICE: 16-18 HARCOURT STREET, WORSLEY, MANCHESTER M28 3GN
REG. NO. 1620385 VAT NO. 588 6104 08
LVMH

WATCHES JEWELLERY

This statement is made pursuant to Section 54(1) of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and constitutes WJ 
slavery and human trafficking statement for the financial year ending 31 December 2016.

The Board of Directors of WJ UK has approved this statement and it has been duly signed by the following
director:

ie

Robert Diver
Director
LVMH Watch Jewellery (UK) 

Date: 12 June 2017

LVMH WATCH JEWELLERY (UK) LTD.
3-5 IVES STREET, SOUTH KENSINGTON, LONDON SW3 2ND
TEL: +44 (0)207 808 8220
REGISTERED OFFICE: 16-18 HARCOURT STREET, WORSLEY, MANCHESTER M28 3GN
REG. NO. 1620385 VAT NO. 588 6104 08
