Brindleclass Limited Modern Slavery Statement 2018

This statement has been published in accordance with Section 54 of the Modern Slavery Act 2015. It
sets out the actions taken by Brindleclass Limited to prevent modern slavery and human trafficking
in its business and supply chains during the financial year ending 30" September 2018.

The Business
Brindleclass Limited is a UK-based company, supplying ladies? dresses, suits and blouses. We employ
21 people in our business premises in the UK.

Our products are manufactured in Europe and Turkey using third party manufacturing facilities. We
do not operate the factories that manufacture our products.
We source from countries like Romania, Turkey and Moldova.

We are fully committed to ensuring employee welfare and human rights are respected throughout
our business. This is fundamental to our approach to corporate social responsibility. We recognise
our responsibility to take a robust approach to slavery and human trafficking and acknowledge that
our business must be aware of the risks and have appropriate procedures and processes in place to
address concerns through the appropriate channels across the business.

Policies

We require all our product suppliers to abide by our Ethical Trading Policy. Our Ethical Trading
Policy is based on the provisions set out in the Ethical Trading Initiative (ETI) Base Code based on
International Labour Organisation(ILO)core conventions which, amongst other requirements,
includes an obligation that all employment is chosen freely, given a safe and healthy environment to
work in; be given the right to free association; be paid a fair wage; not be forced or bonded labour;
be of an appropriate age; and work only reasonable hours.

Our. Suppliers of goods, their factories and any associated 3rd party partners within our Supply Chain
are also required to comply with our Anti-Slavery and Human Trafficking Policy for Suppliers which
demonstrates our zero-tolerance approach to modern slavery.

We have a policy for our employees regarding the prevention, detection and reporting of modern
slavery in any part of our business or supply chain. Our employees are encouraged to raise concerns
about any issue or suspicion of modern slavery in any parts of our business or supply chains of any
Supplier at the earliest possible stage. We are committed to providing training for our employees on
the policy.

Due diligence and audits of suppliers and supply chains

Our staff visit the factories we use for garment production on a regular basis and consider the
environment and work practices during those visits and we reserve the right to conduct third
party audits where necessary.

We audit our suppliers to ensure that they are complying with the Policies. The audits include, but
are not limited to working conditions, health and safety, hours worked, whether wages are above
the legal minimum, ability to leave the premises after work shifts and whether any ID documents are
held by the employers.

In cases where our suppliers have not met the expectations and standards laid out in our Policies, we
have worked with them, offering support to help them improve.
We would terminate commercial relationships with these suppliers if no improvements are made
over an agreed timeframe, or if there was no commitment to make them.

Risks assessment and management

The areas of the supply chain where there is most risk of modern slavery and human trafficking is
where product is sourced through third party suppliers. To manage this risk we work with trusted
partners who are required to sign an agreement which ensures working practices are fair.

Further steps to prevent Modern Slavery

Brindleclass Limited is committed to maintain high ethical standards and due diligence processes in
place which aim to prevent modern slavery and human trafficking in its supply chain. We aim to
increase visibility throughout the supply chain and strengthen relationships with suppliers to
increase focus on these important issues.

Training

We make employees aware of our Policies on the induction into Brindleclass Limited and the Policies
are available as a reference to all our employees. We are committed to regularly reviewing the
Policies and alerting all employees to changes when there are any.

Future Commitment

Modern slavery is an ongoing risk. As such we are committed to continuously review and improve

the effectiveness of the steps we take to prevent modern slavery in our business or in our supply
chain.

This statement has been approved by:
Name: Philip Silver
Position: Managing Director

Signature:

 

Date: 20 March 2019
