Colomer Munmany Evrope Company Limited
Jacobs Building, Dalton Airfield Industrial Estate, Dalton, YO7 3HE ?01845 578951

 

MODERN SLAVERY AND HUMAN TRAFFICKING STATEMENT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2018

INTRODUCTION

This statement is made on behalf of Colomer Munmany Europe Company Limited and Marshall Farmer
Limited pursuant to the section 54(6) of the Modern Slavery Action 2015 and comprises our slavery and
human trafficking statement.

OUR BUSINESS

We manage procurement and processing of sheep skins and cattle hides through 6 depots in the UK to supply
our parent company Henan Prosper Skins Leather Enterprise Co. Limited in China:

UK we procure hides and skins directly from source abattoirs and transport these to our depots for the
process of salting to preserve the hide or skin before transport to Henan Prosper in China for conversion into
leather and leather goods.

Ireland we procure preserved hides and skins for supply direct to Henan Prosper for conversion into
leather and leather goods.

B2B we sell salted hides and skins to tanners around the world for conversion into leather and leather
goods.

OUR SUPPLY CHAINS

Our supply chains include:

Direct procurement from abattoirs.

Procurement from third party providers.

Purchase of consumable materials for production activities.

OUR POLICIES ON SLAVERY AND HUMAN TRAFFICKING

We are committed to ensuring that there is no modern slavery or human trafficking in our supply chains or
in any part of our business. Our Anti-slavery Policy reflects our commitment to acting ethically and with
integrity in all our business relationships and to implementing and enforcing effective systems and controls
to ensure slavery and human trafficking is not taking place anywhere in our business and in our supply chains.

DUE DILIGENCE PROCESSES FOR SLAVERY AND HUMAN TRAFFICKING
As part of our initiative to identify risk and mitigate against such risks we nominate depot managers of the
business units and functions, who in turn report to the General Manager and the Board of Directors.

We have in place systems across our business; our trading partners; and our supply chains to: -
Identify inappropriate employment practices.

Identify and assess other potential risk areas.

Mitigate the risk of slavery and human trafficking occurring.

Monitor potential risk areas.

Protect whistle blowers.

Company registration number: 08106006 Registered office: as above VAT tegistration number: 142011476
COLOMER

Colomer Munmany Europe Company Limited
Jacobs Building, Dalton Airfield Industrial Estate, Dalton, YO7 3HE - 01845 578951

 

SUPPLIER ADHERENCE TO OUR VALUES AND ETHICS

We have zero tolerance to slavery and human trafficking. To ensure all those in our supply chain and
contractors comply with our values we operate in line with principles of responsible sourcing, including
paying employees at the prevailing minimum wage applicable within their relevant operations. We have in
place a supply chain compliance programme that is maintained by the relevant manager or relevant
management. This consists of client reviews; audit; and self-certification declarations.

TRAINING
To ensure a high level of understanding of the risks of modern slavery and human trafficking in our business,
in our supply chains and in our business partners, we provide relevant training to our staff.

OUR EFFECTIVENESS IN COMBATING SLAVERY AND HUMAN TRAFFICKING

We use a arrange of policies to monitor our activities and if we discovered, or were made aware, that we had
been associated with human rights violations, including any acts of modern-day slavery and human
trafficking, internally or in the supply chain, we would take steps to rectify the situation, taking account of
the interests of those whose rights are being violated.

No such instances have been brought to our attention.

The Company and its Directors will review this policy on an annual basis and sign off as required.

This statement is made pursuant to section 54(6) of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and constitutes our Group's
slavery and human trafficking statement for the financial year ending 31st December 2018 and was approved
by the Board of Directors of Colomer Munmany Europe Company Limited and Marshall Farmer Limited on
30th January 2019.

 

John Boneham, Direct

For and on behalf of Colomer Munmany Europe Company Limited
Marshall Farmer Limited

Company registration number: 08106006 Registered office: as above VAT registration number: 142011476
