Bravado

UK MODERN SLAVERY STATEMENT 2019
This statement is made pursuant to section 54(1) of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 (the “Act”) and
constitutes our modern slavery and human trafficking statement for the financial year ending 31st
December 2019. The purpose of this statement is to set out our policies and identify actions that
we have taken to prevent slavery and human trafficking from taking place in our business.
INTRODUCTION TO OUR BUSINESS
Bravado International Group Limited (“Bravado”) is part of the Universal Music Group. The
principal activity of the company is to design, source, and sell merchandise featuring the
intellectual property of international music acts.
STRUCTURE AND SUPPLY CHAINS
Bravado’s physical supply chain sources and arranges distribution of physical merchandise
including apparel, paper products, and accessories. The majority of physical product is sourced
from suppliers based within the European Union, with the products themselves being a mix of both
bespoke and ‘ready-made/ off-the-shelf’ garments. These garments are manufactured in a variety
of countries including Turkey, China, and India, with finishing (i.e. printing) of the ready-made
garments generally occurring in the UK. The company primarily sells its products at music
concerts throughout Europe and to UK high street retailers.
OUR POLICIES ON MODERN SLAVERY AND HUMAN TRAFFICKING
Bravado fully supports the aims of the Act and is committed to carrying out its business fairly and
honestly. We understand the importance of carrying out business in an ethical manner and we
endeavour to constantly improve our systems and processes to ensure that we adhere to ethical
business practices.
We are committed to human dignity and we respect the rights of individuals in every aspect of our
work. Practices that degrade other people including discrimination, slavery, sex trafficking, forced
labour child labour, unfair and unsafe working conditions, or any other form or workplace abuse
have no place in our company, industry or society. As a Universal Music Group company, we
endeavour to ensure that our suppliers adhere to the UMG Corporate Social Responsibility Policy,
which endorses these principles. We take steps to protect human rights in our business by choosing
business partners who share our commitment to human rights and by carrying out our business
with fairness, honesty and integrity.
This statement reflects our commitment to acting ethically in our business relationships and our
stance against any form of slavery, human trafficking, child labour or other human rights
violations. These standards are reflected by commitments including:
•

not using any form (nor contracting with suppliers using any form) of forced, bonded or
compulsory labour, slavery or human trafficking;
1

Bravado
•
•

compliance with all applicable national laws and regulations regarding working hours,
minimum wages and benefits.
Having appropriate processes and due diligence procedures in place to highlight any
possible risks.

OUR SUPPLIERS AND DUE DILIGENCE
Our procurement process involves initiatives to identify and mitigate the risk of modern slavery.
Our larger retail partners generally have their own supply chain audit procedures and reports,
which we are able to review. Where we engage smaller suppliers, we endeavour to use suppliers
that are SEDEX registered, which requests that they undergo annual third-party audits (Sedex
Members Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA)),
All suppliers are expected to comply with the principles set out in the UMG Corporate
Responsibility Policy (as well as ensuring compliance within their own supply chains) and may be
required to evidence their adherence to the policy at least annually.
We endeavour to ensure that contracts with our suppliers and contractors contain provisions
requiring those third parties to comply with applicable laws and permit us to terminate
relationships with any suppliers who do not comply with those laws. Notwithstanding the steps we
take in this area, it is ultimately our suppliers’ duty to respect the applicable laws and ethics on
human rights.
RISK ASSESSMENT
Given the nature of our business, we are cognisant that there is a risk of modern slavery and human
trafficking in our supply chains. With regard to our own business, we minimise such risks within
our own business by implementing hiring procedures and employment policies that ensure a very
low risk of slavery and human trafficking. We do not have specific key performance indicators in
this area as we would expect any instance to be a breach of law and/or our company policies.
With regard to the businesses that we work with, our due diligence and ongoing monitoring
procedures (as set out in this statement) ensure that we keep the risk of modern slavery in our
supply chain as low as possible.
MEASURING EFFECTIVENESS/ONGOING MONITORING
As mentioned above, our larger retail partners have their own audit procedures and require us to
use their own audited supply chains, to minimise any supply chain risks relating to products that
they buy from Bravado and sell to their own customers. Where our smaller retail partners are
SEDEX registered, they should be subject to annual SMETA audits. We encourage our staff to be
alive to the risks of modern slavery and how to assess and identify and risks in our supplier
operations.
In the event that a site visit or audit identifies any problem areas, we are at liberty to terminate our
relationship with that supplier if they fail to remedy the issue within a reasonable time period.
2

Bravado

TRAINING
Our Code of Conduct identifies the risks of modern slavery in our business and sets out our policy
in relation thereto. The Code of Conduct is made available to all employees and periodical online
training is provided to ensure they are familiar with its principles. Our staff also periodically attend
training on modern slavery that is offered by our retail partners.
This statement has been approved by the board of directors of Bravado International Group
Limited.

Simon Carmel
Director
28 March 2019
Bravado International Group Limited.

3

