ANTI-TRAFFICKING STATEMENT
The following document discloses L.L.Bean’s policies and actions relating to slavery and human
trafficking in business and the supply chain.
As detailed below, L.L.Bean has developed and issued a code of conduct that states that we do not
accept or condone/that we prohibit human trafficking and slavery in our supply chain. L.L.Bean defines
slavery per the ILO Declaration on Human Rights. L.L.Bean defines human trafficking as the action or
practice of illegally transporting people from one country or area to another, typically for the purpose of
forced labor.
1. L.L.Bean is a commercial (retailer/manufacturer/brand) doing business in California and in the UK.
L.L.Bean provides a good or service; brings in annual, worldwide, “gross receipts” that exceed $100M;
and has an annual turnover of £36M. L.L.Bean is classified as a private company. L.L.Bean does business
in the retail industry, producing and selling apparel and hard goods geared for the outdoor lifestyle.
2. L.L.Bean practices risk assessment in our supply chain. All factories that make L.L.Bean product are
audited for human and environmental rights before they can begin production. We further audit
factories based on a factory risk assessment. Risks include: country of manufacture, last audit rating,
time since last audit, type of product, World Bank Governance Indicators and more.
L.L.Bean conducts audits of direct suppliers to evaluate compliance with our company standards to
prevent trafficking and slavery in supply chains. Our audits are both unannounced and announced, and
are performed by a qualified third party or by L.L.Bean employees.
3. L.L.Bean does not believe that slavery or human trafficking currently exists in our supply chain.
4. L.L.Bean has set forth policies to address human trafficking and slavery in our supply chain. We have
developed and issued a code of conduct to our direct suppliers that states that we do not accept or
condone/that we prohibit human trafficking and slavery in our supply chain. (Hyperlink to our CEOapproved policy and code of conduct)
a. If evidence of human trafficking or slavery is found, we respond immediately by contacting
local organizations to assist those workers. Then we inform our vendor and immediately
terminate all L.L.Bean production at that factory or at any other factory we use with that
vendor.
b. In the case where noncompliance might exist but is not certain, L.L.Bean reserves the right to
examine the specific situation and develop the best possible strategy for resolution. If cases of
noncompliance are not resolved within a timely manner, we might terminate the business
relationship. While L.L.Bean wishes to aid in the resolution of incidences of human trafficking
and slavery within our supply chain, it is not possible to effectively solve the issue of
noncompliance without the cooperation of the supplier.
5. L.L.Bean communicates with direct suppliers that materials must comply with the slavery and
human trafficking laws of the countries in which they are doing business. Our direct suppliers sign a
contract that includes, among other things, the requirement to follow not only local laws but also

L.L.Bean factory standards. We verify compliance with those laws and standards with the audit program
described above.
6. L.L.Bean maintains and enforces internal accountability procedures for employees and contractors
who fail to meet company standards in preventing the incidence of slavery and human trafficking in
its supply chain. L.L.Bean practices due diligence in maintaining these standards. In addition to the
factory audit process described above, L.L.Bean employees who regularly visit factories are asked to
report, via any method available, anything they think might violate L.L.Bean standards, including
suspected human trafficking.
7. L.L.Bean conducts internal training on L.L.Bean’s code of conduct to ensure the necessary
participants in supply chain management are knowledgeable and aware of the issues and concerns
surrounding the supply chain, including human trafficking and slavery, with a particular focus on
mitigating risks. L.L.Bean also encourages employees involved in our supply chain to participate in
external training programs and seminars on social compliance issues, human trafficking and slavery.
L.L.Bean employees who regularly visit factories engage in a training program based on the factory code
of conduct, so that they can identify when any risk to workers might exist.
8. L.L.Bean continues to evaluate the effectiveness of our human trafficking and slavery eradication
efforts. We do this for our entire human rights and environmental auditing program on an ongoing
basis.

Jim Ditzel
Sr. Vice President, Supply Chain, L.L.Bean

