MODERN SLAVERY STATEMENT
This document has been prepared in accordance with Section 54 of the UK Modern
Slavery Act (2015). It sets out the steps taken by MANGO to control business
operations along the supply chain which shows the commitment to tackling modern
slavery, to minimize risks and to promote positive impacts.

ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE AND BUSINESS
MANGO MNG HOLDING S.A.U. is de matrix of an entities group which main activity
is the design, manufacturing, distribution and commercialization of clothing and
complements.
The company’s founder, Isak Andic, which is actually the president of the brand,
founded the company with the name of MANGO on “Paseo de Gracia”, in Barcelona
at 1984.
In 2015 a Steering Committee was created, made up of eight members, in order to
facilitate communication between the Board of Directors and the Executive
Committee. This governing body is part of the company’s goal to continue to
increase the professionalism of the management to meet the growth needs and
strengthen the key areas of the company. These government bodies also analyze
the potential risks related to corruption and work to prevent situations of this type
from arising.
MANGO is the textile most international Spanish textile group and the second
exporter of the sector, creating more than 6.600 models for season and
manufacturing more than 136 million of articles for year.
In 2008 we launched the men’s collection under the MANGO Man brand, in 2013
MANGO Kids, in 2014 VIOLETA by MANGO with a broader range of designs and
larger sizes and in 2015, the BABY line for newborns to three year olds.
We market our products through MANGO Online and the network of stores, which
includes MANGO Outlet.
The franchise system is operated in countries where the cultural and administrative
characteristics are different to our own and for this reason it is more convenient for
the management to be carried out in the same country.

OUR SUPPLY CHAIN STRUCTURE
Every year we advance in the construction of both a structure and a solid vision in
terms of corporate social responsibility (CSR), viewing this concern as an intrinsic
part of the organization, that will lead to a solid commitment in terms of sustainable
development.
This business perception extends throughout our value chain and it takes shape in a
responsible management model that is based on the search for shared value with
our stakeholders.
There are two different production systems: one, where MANGO designs the
product, orders its manufacture and purchases the finished garment. In this case,
the supplier is responsible for purchasing all the raw materials for production. In the
other case, all the raw materials used in the garment are purchased by MANGO and
later sent to the suppliers for manufacturing.
Supplier’s characteristics are exactly the same in both production systems. Using one
or the other depends, mainly, on geographical (proximity) and technical
(specialization on the manufacturing) factors.
Suppliers can work with more than one factory for the manufacturing of our
collections. Some of them may be used discontinuously depending on the
characteristics of the product required.

If we consider the manufacturing volume, the main supplier market is still Asia, and
largely China, which is followed by Bangladesh and Vietnam. Morocco ranks in
fourth place but it is still an important country for MANGO, as we have been working
with suppliers there for many years, and it has been the most stable country. Turkey,
Portugal and Spain are also among the top ten countries that provide services to
MANGO, which helps to encourage production in nearby markets.

EFFICIENT AND RESPONSIBLE MANAGEMENT OF THE SUPPLY CHAIN

MANGO Code of Conduct
Within MANGO, Sourcing departments work together with CSR and Quality
departments for prior verification of the production centers proposed by suppliers
and for valuation before any order confirmation. This ensures that MANGO
requirements are met in all areas.
All CSR policies are focused to promote good practices (employment, social and
environmental) along the supply chain and the respect of workers’ human rights in
the production sites. We need the suppliers to become our strategic partners who
commit with these goals.
We prioritize consolidating the relationships of trust with suppliers at long term basis.
For this purpose, all suppliers are required to comply with MANGO Code of Conduct
(CoC) which is part of the commercial agreement they sign with MANGO. Our CoC
is based on the principles and philosophy of the United Nations Global Compact,
the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the United Nations Convention on
the Rights of the Child. It also includes all the applicable conventions and
recommendations of the International Labour Organisation (ILO). MANGO joined
Amfori in 2017 so that, BSCI Code of Conduct can be considered as a reference
code for all MANGO business partners.

Due diligence & Auditing process
We are conscious of the risks within the textile sector and therefore, in our supply
chain and recognizes that it can be challenging to achieve full compliance with the
requirements of the CoC, but we believe it is critical.
We use external social audits as the control basis for the implementation of MANGO
Code of Conduct. The external audits carried out in the production centers are
undertaken by different first level auditing companies. On certain occasions, the
internal CSR audit team may also participate in the audits or perform the follow-up
of a specific aspect of the Code of Conduct.

Audits are mostly semi announced.
Besides, representatives of the International Industrial Division of the CC.OO trade
union, affiliated with IndustriAll and Global Union (international trade union
federation), make joint visits to some factories in Asia. The main aim of such visits
is to check the progression of the employees’ situation in textile factories and to
learn at first-hand about the role of the trade union representation in the same.
Disclosure of the results of the audits can be found in the annual sustainability
reports of the company.
Modern Slavery Training & Capacity building
Conscious if the limitations of auditing system, during the last years we have
developed additional procedures to prevent and/or minimize the risks of Modern
Slavery. For that purpose, we have developed a training plan focused in improving
the capacity building along the supply chain. All the suppliers and factory managers
(Tier 1) of our main production countries are invited. These workshops have been
successfully held in India (Delhi and Bangalore), in China (Shanghai and Guangzhou),
in Turkey (Istanbul) and Bangladesh (Dacca) so far. The goal is to continue working
on the same direction and go deeper into the most common issues detected as
main non conformities during the audits as an approach to mitigate modern slavery
risks.
On the other hand, new suppliers visit the MANGO headquarters where they receive
training from the all the departments involved in the manufacturing process of
collections. The CSR department offers direct training on the implantation and
monitoring of the Code.
Apart from the auditing procedure, we inform them about Zero Tolerance non
conformities which are not acceptable for MANGO, importance of the follow-up
and corrective actions plans for continuous improvement.

ZERO TOLERANCE LEVEL
Child labour
Any form of forced or obligatory labour
Serious risk to employee health and safety
Refugee exploitation

We recognize the extreme complexity of Modern Slavery management in the
industry; that is the reason why we involve suppliers as partners to work together in
the detection and prevention of any modern slavery risk also along their own supply
chain (cascade effect).
At present, we continue improving our grievance mechanisms to enforce awareness
in case of modern slavery situations.

FURTHER STEPS TO ADDRESS MODERN SLAVERY

Global partnerships (SDG 17)
To support and achieve this ambitious target, we promote the creation of alliances
with key organizations in order to ensure an efficient and responsible management
of our supply chain. Through these connections we intend to align our company and
policies with those Sustainable Development Goals we identify the most (SDG8 &
SDG12).

Details about the partnerships can be found in the annual sustainability reports
released in the corporative website.

Commitments for future
MANGO is aware of emerging risks in the garment industry. We need to be alert to
the impacts of our operations in sourcing regions and communities. We will therefore
continue to develop and extend our approach to modern slavery along Tier 2
suppliers and also, to go on working in collaboration with industry partners and
stakeholders to embed respect for human rights across the business.

This statement was prepared by MANGO and was approved by the Board of
Directors.
More information about economic performance indicators, key figures, expansion and CSR
performance of the company can be found in the Sustainability Report released on the website.

