UK MODERN SLAVERY ACT
BESTSELLER STATEMENT
2016/17

The statement is published in accordance with the UK Modern Slavery Act
2015. BESTSELLER A/S has subsidiaries in the UK. The following outlines
the steps taken in FYlG/17 to prevent modern slavery and human trafficking
in our value chain.

BESTSELLER

P. I

•
ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE AND SUPPLY CHAIN
With more than 20 fashion brands, BESTSELLER provides fashion clothing, footwear and
accessories for women, men, teenagers and children. BESTSELLER brands and products are
available online, in about 2,700 branded chain stores and 15,000 multi-brand and
department stores across most of Europe, The Middle East, North America, Latin America,
Australia and India.
BESTSELLER works with approx. 400 suppliers, manufacturing at approx. 800 factories in
27 countries across Asia and Europe. Through our Compliance Programme and Social
Engagement Programme, we continuously work with suppliers to promote responsible
working conditions and respect for human rights.
BESTSELLER has sourcing offices in the six main production countries, and in total, we
have more than 30 colleagues assisting our suppliers in building capabilities to create long­
term improvements at their factories.
BESTSELLER believes that a collaborative approach is imperative in order to create
solutions to industry challenges. In light of this, we engage in multi-stakeholder initiatives
and coalitions such as the Ethical Trading Initiative (ET!), Sustainable Apparel Coalition
(SAC), the Better Cotton Initiative (BC!) and the Bangladesh Accord on Fire and Building
Safety.

BESTSELLER HUMAN RIGHTS POLICIES
In our Code of Conduct, we require our suppliers and their sub-suppliers to promote
respect for human rights and labour rights at production facilities. As a supplement to our
Code of Conduct, we have specific policies and procedures, such as our Human Rights
Policy, Child Labour Policy, Homeworking Policy and Migrant Worker Policy.
Our policies and initiatives are based on the 'UN Guiding Principles on Business and
Human Rights' and key UN conventions such as the 'UN Universal Declaration of Human
Rights', as well as !LO conventions and recommendations, including 'The International
Labour Organization's Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work'.
In accordance with our human rights policies, we continuously work to identify, prevent,
mitigate and avoid causing or contributing to adverse impacts on human rights with
regards to our own employees and in our business activities. If we become aware of adverse
impacts in our own business activities, we work to mitigate and remediate such impacts. If
we become aware of adverse impacts in business activities directly linked to us, we do our
utmost to contribute to remediation.

