Modern Slavery Transparency Statement

Introduction
Our business
As a global textile organisation, Camira offers turn-key products into the commercial
interior and mass passenger transportation markets. Our products grace some of the most
prestigious installations of blue-chip headquarters, indoor arena and cinemas, healthcare
facilities and education, and transportation on mainline trains, underground trains, public
buses and coaches.
Headquartered in West Yorkshire (UK), Camira Group Holdings Limited continues to lead
a dynamic group of companies with its Board of Directors retaining ultimate accountability
for Group strategy, policy, governance and risk management of modern slavery issues.
Responsibility for the practical implementation of modern slavery risk mitigation activity is
undertaken by our Human Resource, Strategic Purchasing, Sustainability and Compliance
teams who consult and work with nominated employee representatives, internationally,
nationally and locally.
See our Group Compliance Policy for more information.
Our policy
Underpinning our commitment to Making the Difference, we recognise our potential to
influence the safeguarding of our international, national and local communities through
our Corporate Social Responsibility Policy. It is one of our guiding principles to build and
maintain the highest standards amongst our suppliers and take practical steps to guard
against exploitation of workers, forced labour, harassment, intimidation and human
trafficking.
Equally, Camira is focussed on providing a working environment in which our People can
thrive. Our suite of people-related strategies and policies ensure that integrity is ingrained
as a core value, and annual delivery of our specialist modern slavery training validates our
shared understanding of our compliance culture.
It is the responsibility of all our People to adhere to the strategies, policies and training
provided, in addition to any specific local requirements. Our strategies and policies are
extended to our prospective supply chain partners through our Supplier Assessment
Framework and are made available though our corporate website and intranet.
See our Group People Strategy, Equality & Diversity Policy & Health & Safety Policy
for more information.
Our principal risks
Our approach to identifying and assessing modern slavery risk is embedded within our
broader risk management practices. Businesses and functions governed by this statement
are contractually required to conform to Camira’s control requirements including, active
diligence in the identification and notification of modern slavery risks. Our supply chain
partners are additionally contractually obligated to mitigate modern slavery risks with their
supply chain partners.
We have considered the exposure of Camira to modern slavery risk, taking into account the
nature of our business activities; the application of group policies, particularly purchasing
and recruitment practices.
Overall, we consider the Group’s exposure to Modern Slavery to be low.

Camira Group Holdings Ltd | The Watermill, Wheatley Park,Mirfield, West Yorkshire, UK, WF14 8HE
www.camirafabrics.com e info@camirafabrics.com

t
f

+44 (0) 1924 490591
+44 (0) 1924 495605

Registered in England, Registered No. 09512739
POL-SPURC-001 R3

UNLABELLED

Page 1 of 3

Tackling modern slavery risk in our supply chain
The management of modern slavery risk and impact in our supply chain is embedded into
our Supplier Assessment Framework. Supported by our Strategic Purchasing team, our
supply chain is responsible for ensuring compliance with local labour laws.
We assess the modern slavery risk to people in our supply chain by considering the country
of origin we are sourcing products and raw materials from. Our Strategic Purchasing team
develop expert knowledge of local labour laws and human rights risks through stringent
assessment and audit of potential supply chain partners. The Camira Supplier Assessment
Framework was introduced during 2018 with an achieved target of over 90% of total spend
suppliers assessed.
Contractual obligations between Camira and its supply chain partners is now mandated
through our newly introduced Supplier Framework Agreement. Our agreement places
requirements on our suppliers to support the eradication of modern slavery risks through
the adherence with local legislation. During 2018 we have focussed on the implementation
of the new agreements with our key suppliers. Of our major suppliers instructed during
2018, four are now contracted under our Supplier Framework Agreement.
Tackling modern slavery risk in our business
The management of modern slavery risk and impact in our business operations is embedded
into our recruitment processes. Supported by our Human Resource team, our Leadership
team is responsible for ensuring compliance with local labour laws.
Introduced in 2018, all employees receive regular mandated training on ethical behaviours.
In particular, we provided modern slavery awareness training with refresher training taking
place annually in November. To date, 100% of employees affecting our modern slavery risk
exposure have undertaken our modern slavery awareness training.
We encourage the raising of questions and concerns related to ethical business practices.
Besides operating an ‘open-door culture’ to encourage dialog between our workers and
Leadership team, our Whistleblowing Policy ensures people can report any concerns in
confidence. Concerns raised are reviewed by subject matter experts within the Camira
Group; we also seek external counsel when required. To date no concerns have been raised
related to modern slavery.
Looking forward
In the next 12 months we will continue to strengthen our approach to managing the risk of
modern slavery within our business.
•

Improvements to our Supplier 		
Assessment Framework by introducing
‘weighted’ scores that prioritise modern
slavery issues;

•

Introduction of a Global Code of 		
Conduct, for all our People, to ensure
clear expectations about our approach to
compliance and ethical issues;

•

Improvements to our Terms of 		
Purchase to ensure all suppliers, no 		
matter how big or small, are captured
within our risk management framework;

•

Development of a Sustainability 		
Roadmap, encompassing five distinct
areas of improvement, including People,
Culture and Communities;

•

Requirement that supply chain 		
partners provide an annual Modern
Slavery Statement pledging their 		
continued commitment to the 		
eradication of modern slavery.

•

Improved communication opportunities
for our People to raise questions or 		
concerns related to compliance and 		
ethical issues.

Camira Group Holdings Ltd | The Watermill, Wheatley Park,Mirfield, West Yorkshire, UK, WF14 8HE
www.camirafabrics.com e info@camirafabrics.com

t
f

+44 (0) 1924 490591
+44 (0) 1924 495605

Registered in England, Registered No. 09512739
POL-SPURC-001 R3

UNLABELLED

Page 2 of 3

Declaration
This statement has been made in line with the reporting requirements of Clause 54, Part 6
of the UK Modern Slavery Act and the Californian Transparency in Supply Chains Act of
2010 (SB 657), for the financial year ending 31st December 2018. This statement applies to all
subsidiaries of Camira Group Holdings Limited.
This statement is approved by the Board, and has been signed by the Chief Executive Officer,
on behalf of the Board of Directors.
Signed

Grant Russell
CEO
Camira Group Holdings Limited

The following subsidiaries of Camira Group Holdings Limited are represented
through this Modern Slavery Transparency Statement:
EEA (Incl. UK) based subsidiaries

Non-EEA based subsidiaries

Camira Fabrics Limited
Camira Transport Fabrics Limited
Camira Yarns Limited
Holmfirth Dyers Limited
Camira Fabrics GmbH
UAB Camira Fabrics

Camira Fabrics (Shanghai) Limited
Camira Group, Inc
Camira Group Pty Ltd
Luna Textiles, Inc

Camira Group Holdings Ltd | The Watermill, Wheatley Park,Mirfield, West Yorkshire, UK, WF14 8HE
www.camirafabrics.com e info@camirafabrics.com

t
f

+44 (0) 1924 490591
+44 (0) 1924 495605

Registered in England, Registered No. 09512739
POL-SPURC-001 R3

UNLABELLED

Page 3 of 3

