 

Modern Slavery Statement from Camira Fabrics

At Camira Fabrics, as both a major manufacturer and supplier of contract and transport
fabrics worldwide, we recognise the responsibility that we share with our suppliers, to buy
raw materials and sell our products in an ethical manner. As part of this commitment we
acknowledge our responsibility towards the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and will ensure
transparency within the organisation and with our suppliers of goods and services to
Camira. The standards outlined are applicable across the whole of the Camira Group and all
our subsidiaries.

We want our customers to be confident that our business partners treat their employees
fairly, with respect for human rights and are not exposed to unsafe working conditions or in
any way forced to work under slavery. We believe that when ethical standards are in place,
this can improve worker well-being, productivity and quality, which benefits both our
suppliers and our customers. Only suppliers who share our standards and values will be
considered appropriate to trade with Camira and we seek to develop long-term trading
relationships with suppliers based on the principle of fair, open and honest dealings at all
times.

As a part of our company?s due diligence process we audit our suppliers on a regular basis
and will only work with organisations who also commit to the eradication of slavery and
human trafficking. Our appraisal process will incorporate a review of the controls
undertaken by our suppliers and now also requires, from all suppliers, an annual statement
of their commitment and actions taken to eliminate modern slavery.

Imported products sourced from outside the UK or EC are potentially more at risk of slavery
or human trafficking issues. If products have to be sourced from such locations, we look to
work in partnership with companies who possess certifications such as Social Accountability
certification SA8000 or the IMO Fair for Life programme, which are independently assessed
standards that reinforce their commitment to human rights, working conditions and the
provision of a living wage.

Camira will not work with any organisation that either has or is found to be knowingly
involved within either human trafficking or modern slavery.

The Company Directors and Senior Management shall be responsible for the application of
this policy and ensure all activity complies with the Modern Slavery Act 2015. Camira will
provide adequate resources, training and investment to ensure its successful application
throughout the next financial year.

Signed: Za ye

Alan Williams, Operations Director

 
 

Date: 4 12/2015



 
