Date: Feb 2018

Modern slavery statement

Modern slavery and transparency in supply chains statement
This statement has been prepared for the year ending 31 December 2017 and is in accordance with
the requirements of the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015 and the California Transparency in Supply
Chains Act of 2010. The statement takes account of UK Government guidance1, has been approved
by Coats Group plc Board of Directors and is applicable to all Coats business units and subsidiary
companies.
1. Our business and supply chain
Coats is the world’s leading industrial thread manufacturer and a major player in the Americas textile
crafts market. We operate in more than 50 countries, employing some 19,000 people across six
continents and our products are sold in over 100 countries. Our Industrial business is the leading
producer of industrial thread for the apparel and footwear industry, we have a leading and expanding
position in the performance materials market and our Crafts business is the largest player in the
Americas textile crafts market.
We have over 2,000 direct material and product suppliers, located in more than 70 countries
worldwide, who supply raw materials, components and finished goods for our industrial and crafts
business units. We also work with over 10,000 ‘indirect’ suppliers providing, for example, equipment,
consumables, agency workers, maintenance and cleaning services and a range of professional
services.
2. Our policies and principles
We operate to high ethical business, employment and recruitment standards across all of our global
operations. Our business reputation, together with the trust and confidence of the people we do
business with, is one of our most valuable assets and one which we strive to protect. High ethical
standards also make good business sense, they create value for our company, our shareholders and
ultimately for society as a whole.
We have zero tolerance towards exploitative employment practices and our policies and codes of
practice make specific reference to the avoidance of slavery, forced or bonded labour both in our own
operations and in our supply chain. We uphold the aims of the California Transparency in Supply
Chains Act of 2010 and the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015.
1

Transparency in Supply Chains etc, A practical guide, Guidance issued under section 54(9) of the Modern Slavery Act 2015,
www.gov.uk
Modern slavery statement

1

Furthermore, we support the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights throughout all our
operations. Our global policies uphold the requirements of the UN Declaration of Human Rights and
the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the core ILO2 Conventions, and the OECD 3 Guidelines for
Multinational Enterprises.
a. Our Operations
At Coats, we all share the responsibility for developing and maintaining a working environment that
we can be proud of. The foundations of this lie in everyone acting with honesty, integrity and fairness
and speaking up if they feel this is not happening.
Our Ethics Code (http://www.coats.com/assets/files/cms/Ethics_Code.pdf) sets out the basic
principles and standards that we expect of all our employees and partners. The code applies to
everyone who represents, or acts on behalf of, Coats and helps them to understand their role in
upholding our values.
To supplement this, our worldwide Employment Standards
(http://www.coats.com/assets/files/cms/Coats_worldwide_employment_standards_Oct_2017.pdf) set
out the principles which are observed across our global operations.
A Whistleblowing Policy (http://www.coats.com/assets/files/cms/Whistleblowing_Policy.pdf) and
process is in place to encourage the reporting of any possible occurrences of non-compliance with
the code or any policy, including a whistleblowing hotline.
b. Our Supply Chain
It is vital that our relationships with business partners and suppliers are aligned with our own business
principles and our approach to Corporate Responsibility. As a result, we continually review our
approach to ethical and sustainable supply chain management.
We have developed a detailed Supplier Code
(http://www.coats.com/assets/files/cms/Coats_Supplier_Code_2017.pdf), which outlines the
expectations we have of our suppliers. The Supplier Code, which was piloted in 2015 and launched
globally throughout 2016, is based on international standards and, in the absence of such standards,
accepted good practice. The Code covers labour practices, environmental management, responsible
sourcing of materials and products, and business conduct. It also contains specific requirements
around human trafficking and forced and bonded labour:
‘Suppliers must not use slavery, forced or bonded labour or involuntary prison labour in their
businesses. Suppliers must not directly or indirectly engage in or support human trafficking, by
recruiting, transferring, harbouring or receiving a worker using threat, force, coercion or deception.
Suppliers must have a system in place to check that employees have a legal right to work.’
3. Due diligence, risk assessment, audits and training
We have undertaken a human rights risk assessment to identify the areas of highest risk both in our
own business operations and in those of our supply chain. We have mapped our operations and
those of our supply chain to identify particular industry/sectoral risks as well as risks from their
geographical location. To identify particular country risks, we have taken account of a number of
external benchmarks and indices in our risk assessment process, including the UN Human
Development Index, ITUC 4 Global Rights Index, Freedom House Freedom in the World Civil Liberties,
UNICEF5 % of children aged 5-14 years engaged in child labour, US State Department Trafficking in
Persons, and Transparency International’s Corruption Perceptions Index. Our assessments are
reviewed on a regular basis.
2

International Labour Organisation
Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development
4 International Trade Union Confederation
5 The United Nations Children's Fund
3

Modern slavery statement

2

The risk assessment helps to focus our efforts on internal communication and employee training and
supports the rollout and monitoring of the Supplier Code across all our companies, with an initial
focus on the higher risk areas of our business.
a. Our Operations
We carry out internal audits against our business principles to ensure that we are upholding our
standards globally. In China specifically, we have a team of people who have been trained and
certified as Corporate Responsibility Auditors and are now equipped with the skills to carry out their
own social compliance audits. Furthermore, our manufacturing plants are regularly audited by our
clients and global branded customers to ensure we are meeting their ethical trade standards.
We continually promote ‘doing the right thing’ by raising awareness and embedding our Corporate
Responsibility (CR) policies and our ethical standards across the business. All senior employees and
those with externally facing roles complete mandatory ethics and compliance training. We have an
online training package covering the core themes of our CR programme, including anti-corruption,
competition, slavery, child labour and ethics. In addition, a number of face-to-face training sessions
have been held in key high-risk locations, such as Brazil, Bangladesh, Colombia, India, Turkey and
Vietnam, to help ensure that everyone at and associated with Coats continues to understand Coats’
high ethical standards.
b. Our Supply Chain
We engage with our suppliers and partners around the issues outlined in the Supplier Code, and have
developed a due diligence and review protocol for our procurement teams to use in assessing
supplier credentials.
The Supplier Code was introduced to our suppliers in 2016 and 2017. Our key suppliers (large
volume in areas of high risk) were introduced to the Supplier Code by means of a one-day workshop,
hosted by our local Coats site. Following the workshops, suppliers were required to conduct a gap
analysis of their own procedures and practices against the Coats’ Supplier Code. They were asked to
report back to Coats with their analysis, denoting areas of non-compliance and providing an action
plan for improvement. Our procurement teams monitor the implementation of the plan and provide
hands-on advice and support for each of our key suppliers. The Supplier Code was communicated
to our medium risk suppliers verbally, by either phone or at a face to face meeting with procurement.
Low risk suppliers have been sent the Supplier Code by email.
By the end of 2017, 97% of our suppliers have been informed about our Supplier Code and suppliers
representing over 45% of our total spend have attended the one-day workshops.
A review of Supplier Code adherences also forms an integral part of our routine reviews of supplier
performance. We have also reserved the right to audit our suppliers and partners, to the furthest
extent permitted by law and any contract we have in place, to ensure compliance with the Supplier
Code (see audit outcome update below).
In the event that we become aware of any supplier company acting in contravention of the
requirements in our Supplier Code, we reserve the right to demand corrective actions or ultimately to
terminate the agreement. Following our Supplier Code global rollout in 2016, we undertook 12 followup workshops in 5 high-risk countries in 2017. We carried out these workshops in Bangladesh, India.
China, Indonesia and Vietnam, where we have focused on two high priority themes: Modern Slavery
and Anti-Bribery and Corruption. 276 (95%) of the key suppliers in these countries attended a followup workshop.

Modern slavery statement

3

This year we have also run a third-party supplier audit with 39 suppliers in Vietnam. Audits were
conducted by Bureau Veritas, using the Coats Supplier Code audit template and results showed that
20 suppliers were graded ‘Good’, 16 were ‘Acceptable’ and 3 required improvement. Since these
audits we have engaged with the 3 suppliers that required improvement to assist them in developing
their policies and processes. They will be audited again in early 2018 to check on progress. The
suppliers rated ‘Acceptable’ will be re-audited within two years of the date of their previous audit and
suppliers rated ‘Good’ will be re-audited within three years of the date of their previous audit.
4. Future plans
We realise that the risks to our business from Modern Slavery will continually evolve and we will
continue to review our approach to tackling the issue. Our aim is to ensure that slavery does not exist
in our business and our supply chains.
We will continue to raise awareness across the business on modern slavery issues and ensure that
all our key employees continue to receive refreshed training on ethics including the issues around
slavery; to this effect our internal communication and training materials will be reviewed and updated
accordingly.
Next year, we will continue our engagement with our suppliers, providing support and guidance to
ensure adherence with our Supplier Code. To this effect, we will be revisiting our processes to
continue raising awareness within our supply chain and to ensure our suppliers have the most
effective measures in place to mitigate human rights issues, including slavery. Our procurement
teams, who are reviewing the self-assessment questionnaires completed by suppliers, will receive
further training to ensure that all self-assessments have been reviewed and any non-compliances
have been assessed and followed up appropriately. Any ‘critical’ non-compliances will be dealt with
as a priority by the procurement teams. We will collect key performance metrics from supplier audits
to keep track of the number of non-compliances and ensure those are resolved and closed as soon
as possible.
This statement will be updated annually to reflect our ongoing focus.

Rajiv Sharma
Group Chief Executive, Coats
Ends

Modern slavery statement

4

