MODERN SLAVERY STATEMENT for FINANCIAL
YEAR 2016

Meltemi Ltd designs and supplies uniform clothing to organisations providing
healthcare, residential care and domiciliary care in the UK. These include NHS
Trusts, GP Medical Practices, Private Healthcare companies, Residential Care Home
providers and Domicilliary Care and Nursing agencies.
We are owned by Alsico Laucuba Ltd which is located in Preston and it, in turn is
part of the Alsico group which trades globally and whose headquarters is based in
Belgium. Alsico have a number of manufacturing locations and sales offices spread
across predominately Europe and Asia.
We supply our customers using product manufactured primarily in group owned
manufacturing locations in Laos and Morocco. Some smaller volume or specialist
product groups are manufactured in Bangladesh, Mauritius and UAE. Raw materials
are specified by Meltemi and purchased from preferred or contracted
manufacturers.
Our workforce in the UK is made up of permanent employees employed directly by
Meltemi in either full or part-time roles with contracted hours. Employees in
manufacturing locations used by us are also permanent employees, again employed
directly by the manufacturing company. A minority of locations use a migrant
labour force and provide accommodation for those workers.
Our policy relating to ethical trading has been aligned to the principles of the ETI
Base Code and we use these principles to drive our activity in terms of ethical
trading. Every supplier to Meltemi is required to sign up to our policy and agree to
ensure that the Base Code principles are upheld within their own organisation.
Meltemi Ltd is a full member of the ETI.
We endeavour to forge partnerships with our suppliers to ensure transparency and
compliance around modern slavery and human trafficking. Suppliers are made
aware of the requirement of the first principle of the ETI Base Code and our
expectation that we will monitor and continually assess compliance in our supply
partners.
Employment is freely chosen
We expect suppliers to publish the ETI Base Code to their workforces so that they
too, can understand our commitment to this principle.
However we recognise the inherent risks associated with garment production and

the geographical and cultural areas in which we work. Our belief is that
transparency offers the best opportunity to create compliance and we are working
with suppliers to assess their practices and map their suppliers of raw materials. In
this way, we hope to ensure the fullest knowledge of suppliers and the risks for
modern slavery that exist within those organisations.
It is our practice to assess risk and analyse its possible impact, identifying areas of
risk and looking for root causes. Our aim is to embed these assessments into our
business practices and processes and one of the ways that we do this by training
our UK staff to recognise the potential signs of modern slavery and providing a
process by which they can report their concern. In addition, we work to heighten
awareness in our suppliers so that they can improve their own practices and ability
to spot the potential for modern slavery to occur in their own supply chains.
We are working to maintain progress against key benchmarks that have been
designed to improve our ability to identify the risk of modern slavery in our supply
chain.
The Board of Meltemi Ltd is committed to the work of the company in this area and
is determined to ensure that the resource and capacity required for this work to be
successful is made available.
We understand the need to recognise the value of remediation and are committed
to redressing wrong where it can be identified.
New suppliers are clearly an area where risk is exacerbated and we work with
potential suppliers to evaluate their practices and compliance with our ethical
trading policy and the principles of the ETI Base Code. We are looking for suppliers
who understand the need for compliance and who will work with us to improve
working conditions for their workforce and endeavour to eradicate the risk of
modern slavery within their own organisation and their supply chain.
We believe that we are not seeing current evidence of modern slavery or human
trafficking within our immediate supply chain but we recognise that this is a
dynamic and fluid situation in which we are involved and that we must have a
robust process in place that continually monitors and assesses the changing
landscape that is our supply chain.
It is our ambition for 2017 to support opportunities for worker voice and to
encourage the use of an easy and available whistle-blowing service throughout the
workforces of our supply chain. We know that both these can be strong drivers in
removing the risk of modern slavery and could give us reassurance of compliance
with supplier companies.
Meltemi Ltd is independently audited against the requirements of the NHS Labour
Standards Assurance Scheme, has achieved Level 3 of the scheme and will be
working to achieve the highest level in 2017 which is Level 4.
Sue Brothers
Managing Director
Meltemi Ltd.

