Modern Slavery
Statement

MODERN SLAVERY STATEMENT FOR FINANCIAL YEAR 2018
The business of Meltemi Ltd is to design and supply uniform
clothing to organisations providing health and care services in
the UK. Typically these can be described as NHS Trusts, GP
Medical Practices, Private Healthcare companies, Residential
Care Home providers, University Schools of Health, Domiciliary
Care and Nursing agencies.

This year brought a change in Board structure in order to
recognise and give dedicated responsibility in the areas of
ethical trading, modern slavery and sustainability. A director
has joined the Alsico Board with specific responsibility and
we expect this to strengthen our policy, due diligence and
implementation around modern slavery.

BUSINESS STRUCTURE

POLICIES

We are a fully owned subsidiary of Alsico Laucuba Ltd which is
located in Preston, UK Alsico Laucuba Ltd is part of the global
Alsico group which is headquartered in Belgium. Alsico own a
number of manufacturing locations and sales offices spread
across Europe, North Africa, Asia and North America.

Policies in areas of procurement, purchasing and HR have
been rewritten to ensure that the risk of modern slavery
is a key consideration for these areas of activity. We
have undertaken awareness building with our UK staff in
understanding and recognising the risks of modern slavery in
our own organisation and supply chain. We have also provided
staff and suppliers with a written guide which defines and gives
tips for recognising risk not only in their own organisations but
in their out-of-work lives too.

We are committed to creating and maintaining long-term
relationships with suppliers where understanding can be
grown and business relied upon in both directions. We have
developed new supplier partners in 2018 but this has been to
facilitate different and new product groups or extra production
space and all pre-existing locations remain a valued part of our
supply chain.
During 2018 we supplied product manufactured in groupowned manufacturing locations in Laos, Morocco and
Madagascar. More than 80% of our product quantity was
produced in these locations but our manufacturing totalled
less than 10% of the combined output of these factories. Other
lower volume product groups such as knitwear and outerwear
were manufactured in Bangladesh and Mauritius with suiting
produced in the EU. Our requirements represented a small
% of the total production output of these manufacturing units,
typically less than 5%.
Raw materials and accessories continue to be specified by
Meltemi and we monitor that these are purchased from our
specified mill or manufacturer.
Our workforce in the UK is made up of permanent employees
employed directly by Meltemi in either full or part-time roles
with contracted hours. Employees in manufacturing locations
used by us are also permanent employees, again employed
directly by the manufacturing company.
In 2018 two offshore locations continued to use migrant
workers and one provided accommodation for those workers.
These workers are all employed directly by the manufacturing
unit with full employment contracts and the same terms and
conditions as local workers. We have worked with both these
locations in 2018 to promote understanding of how the use
of recruitment agencies in the provision of migrant labour can
increase the risk of modern slavery in our supply chain.

Our policies relating to ethical trading continue to be closely
aligned to the principles of the ETI Base Code and we actively
use these principles to drive our practical work in terms of
ethical trading. Every garment and raw material supplier to
Meltemi has signed up to our policy and agreed to ensure
that the Base Code principles are upheld within their own
organisation. Meltemi Ltd is a full member of the ETI and has
been very active in 2018, playing a full part in the members’
discussions and contributing to working groups in the areas of
modern slavery, gender inequality and worker voice.
In 2018 we have worked to maintain and develop partnerships
with our suppliers to ensure transparency and compliance
around modern slavery issues. The first principle of the
ETI Base Code Employment is freely chosen has been
emphasised and explained to suppliers and this has formed
a key part of our practical activities to monitor and continually
assess compliance in our supply partners.
We provide suppliers with the ETI Base Code in a range of
languages so that their workforces have easy access and can
see our commitment to this principle.
Policy review and development is embedded in the KPI’s for
our senior manager in Meltemi. The ownership and signoff for
all our policies is placed with this manager.
Assessment of supplier and contractor policies in the areas of
ethical trading and modern slavery is the responsibility of our
Head of Supply. These are reviewed regularly and we look for
evidence of enforcement mechanisms as part of our practical
monitoring of suppliers.

RISK ASSESSMENT

•

Ensure that any remedy is fit for purpose

We continue to recognise the inherent risks of modern slavery
associated with garment production and the geographical
and cultural areas in which we manufacture. Much of our
manufacturing takes place in group-owned units and here we
can be confident that the risks of modern slavery are fewer but
independent manufacturers create a greater challenge and it
is to these sites in Bangladesh and Mauritius that we gave our
priority focus in 2018.

•

Make sure that there is sufficient resource and priority
given to awareness raising and building local grievance
handling capability.

Risk in Mauritius can be connected to recruitment of migrant
labour with fees for employment and retention of documents
creating severe and tractable risks of modern slavery. In 2018
we have worked with our manufacturing location in Mauritius
to review recruitment policies, employment contracts and the
practical methods used to recruit staff. We have been able
to make some key adjustments to remove risk and are now
satisfied that it has been addressed successfully in this area
of activity.

We have found it invaluable in 2018 to be part of peer learning
groups facilitated by our membership of the ETI and this has
allowed us to benefit from the lessons learned by others and
to develop new activities based on best practice.

Our buying, technical and quality staff have had ongoing
training in 2018 to ensure that they are aware of the risks of
modern slavery in our supply chain and also to recognise the
salient risk in manufacturing in Mauritius and Bangladesh
where we do not own the production units.

EFFECTIVENESS AND KPI’s

DUE DILIGENCE
We have a strong ambition to work beyond audit and
contractual compliance with our suppliers and can evidence
that through the supply chain-wide projects on which we have
worked with suppliers in 2018.
We have worked with our two largest suppliers to assess
gender equality of opportunity and pay in 2018. This has given
us real information around the potential for disadvantages
centred on gender and to discuss how these might be
remedied with the suppliers. We will be rolling this out to
other suppliers in 2019, evaluating best practice and sharing
the learning across the whole of our supply chain.
During 2018, we have developed further our policies around
grievance mechanisms and remedy in order to ensure that
there is easy access for both direct employees and supply
chain employees.

We also have an incident response plan that is clear guidance
on actions that must be taken in the event that an incident of
modern slavery is discovered. This defines actions and who is
responsible for implementation.

In addition, we have worked with our parent company to share
and embed good practice throughout the UK business and this
has been of benefit to both suppliers and UK staff.

The Board of Meltemi Ltd is committed to the work of the
company in this area and has continued to ensure that the
resource and capacity required for all our work on ethical
trading compliance and development is made available.
We have not identified evidence of modern slavery or human
trafficking within our immediate supply chain but we recognise
that the risks are inherent in the locations and in the industry
in which we work. We know that in order to reduce those
risks, we must have a robust process in place that continually
monitors and assesses the changing landscape that is our
supply chain.
Our ongoing review of supplier practices achieved through
desk top research along with factory visits and independent
audits is instrumental in feeding our learning into our business
practices. Our successful work around recruitment practices
and employment contracts is a good example of this learning.
Meltemi Ltd was independently audited against the
requirements of the NHS Labour Standards Assurance
Scheme in 2018 and achieved Level 4 of the scheme. This is
the highest achievable level and we understand that this is one
of the best performances for a supplier of uniforms to the NHS.

As part of our policy we require:
•

Suppliers to apply the Rule of Law – ROL

•

Suppliers to put in place grievance procedures that are
accessible for workers and report on the number and
subject of grievances they receive from their workers

•

Meltemi to work with suppliers to build management
capacity for the effective handling of worker complaints

•

Suppliers to ensure workers’ knowledge of their rights in
relation to the available grievance channels and that this
is communicated at induction and regularly afterwards

Sue Brothers
Director | CSR | Ethical Trading | Sustainability

Approved Supplier
Level 4

And note that we must be careful to:
•

Ensure that access to state systems and ROL are not
obstructed

•

Recognise the value of our leverage to lobby for remedy

•

Ensure that operational grievance mechanisms OGM are
operated in a timely and transparent fashion

Contact us
ethical@meltemi.co.uk
0044 1603 731300 • www.meltemi.co.uk
Meltemi, Barnard Road, Norwich NR5 9JB

