MODERN SLAVERY STATEMENT for FINANCIAL YEAR 2017

Meltemi Ltd continues to design and supply uniform clothing to organisations
providing healthcare, residential care and domiciliary care in the UK. These include
NHS Trusts, GP Medical Practices, Private Healthcare companies, Residential Care
Home providers, University Schools of Health, Domiciliary Care and Nursing
agencies.
We are owned by Alsico Laucuba Ltd which is located in Preston and it, in turn is
part of the Alsico group which trades globally and whose headquarters is based in
Belgium. Alsico have a number of manufacturing locations and sales offices spread
across predominately Europe and Asia.
In 2017 we supplied our customers using product manufactured primarily in
group-owned manufacturing locations in Laos, Morocco and Madagascar. Some
smaller volume or specialist product groups are manufactured in Bangladesh and
Mauritius. Raw materials are still specified by Meltemi and purchased from
preferred or contracted manufacturers.
Madagascar is a new group-owned manufacturing unit so in 2017 we have worked
using our documented on-boarding processes to ensure that our requirements for
ethical trading are understood and translated into best practice.
Our workforce in the UK is made up of permanent employees employed directly
by Meltemi in either full or part-time roles with contracted hours. Employees in
manufacturing locations used by us are also permanent employees, again
employed directly by the manufacturing company. In 2017 two locations used
migrant workers and one provided accommodation for those workers.
Our policy relating to ethical trading continues to be closely aligned to the
principles of the ETI Base Code and we actively use these principles to drive our
practical work in terms of ethical trading. Every garment and raw material supplier
to Meltemi has signed up to our policy and agreed to ensure that the Base Code
principles are upheld within their own organisation. Meltemi Ltd is a full member
of the ETI and has been very active in 2017, playing a full part in the members’
discussions and contributing to working groups in the areas of modern slavery and
gender inequality.
As in 2016 our aim has been to create and maintain partnerships with our
suppliers to ensure transparency and compliance around modern slavery issues.
Suppliers are made aware of the requirement of the first principle of the ETI Base
Code Employment is freely chosen and also our expectation that we will monitor
and continually assess compliance in our supply partners.

We provide suppliers with the ETI Base Code in a range of languages so that their
workforces have easy access and can see our commitment to this principle.
In the first quarter of 2018, it is our intention to produce an easy-to-read guide to
modern slavery – how it occurs, what drives it and how to recognise it. It seems to
us that understanding of the term varies and so we will provide the guide to all our
suppliers so they can be sure of their own compliance and are better placed to
recognise the risks in their supply chains.
We continue to recognise the inherent risks of modern slavery associated with
garment production and the geographical and cultural areas in which we work and
we have worked hard in 2017 to ensure we have the fullest knowledge of our
suppliers and the risks for modern slavery that exist within those organisations.
Our buying, technical and quality staff all had further training in 2017 to ensure that
they are aware of the risks of modern slavery, understand the drivers for it and
have the understanding required to recognise the potential signs of modern slavery
within our supply chain.
The Board of Meltemi Ltd is committed to the work of the company in this area and
has continued to ensure that the resource and capacity required for all our work on
ethical trading compliance and development is made available.
We have not identified evidence of modern slavery or human trafficking within our
immediate supply chain but we recognise that the risks are inherent in the locations
and in the industry in which we work. We know that in order to reduce those risks,
we must have a robust process in place that continually monitors and assesses the
changing landscape that is our supply chain.
Much of our manufacturing takes place in group-owned units and here we can be
confident that the risks of modern slavery are fewer but independent
manufacturers create a greater challenge and it is these sites in Bangladesh and
Mauritius that will be given our priority focus in 2018
Meltemi Ltd was independently audited against the requirements of the NHS
Labour Standards Assurance Scheme in 2017 and achieved Level 3 of the scheme
with 12 of the 15 principles judged to be at Level 4. We understand that this is one
of the best performances for a supplier of uniforms to the NHS.

Sue Brothers
Managing Director
Meltemi Ltd.

