TRAN SPA REN CY I N
SUPPLY CHA IN S
STA TEM EN T
This statement is elaborated in accordance with the California Transparency in Supply Chains
Act and the UK Modern Slavery Act. It demonstrates how PANDORA work to prevent and
mitigate the risk of forced labour, modern slavery and human trafficking in our value chain.

About PANDORA
PANDORA designs, manufactures and markets hand-finished and contemporary jewellery made
from high-quality materials at affordable prices. We own and operate the greatest part of our value
chain, from design and raw material procurement through crafting to marketing and sale of our
jewellery. This means we know where our jewellery comes from and how it is made – and can
ensure that every piece is designed, crafted and distributed according to our ethical standards.
Founded in 1982 and headquartered in Copenhagen, Denmark, PANDORA employs more than
21,500 people worldwide of whom around 12,400 are located in Thailand, where we manufacture
the majority of our jewellery. We take pride in an employee turn-over rate at only 3.2% at our
Bangkok crafting facility in 2016 - compared to an industry average of approx. 15%.
Our craftspeople are offered a competitive wage and benefit package, continued professional and
personal skills development, a healthy and safe work environment as well as a range of social
activities. To avoid potential employees being overcharged by recruitment agencies (a common
problem in Thailand), we hire our craftspeople directly. During our 2016 recruitment day 12,500
applicants appeared at our gate.

PANDORA Ethics
PANDORA believes that corporate social responsibility (CSR) and our aspiration to offer high-quality
and contemporary jewellery go hand in hand. Responsible business practices and social awareness
are virtues which we strive to honour in all operations. A central part of this is our continued
efforts to ensure responsible supply chains for the sourcing of jewellery materials and point of sale
materials.
Our CSR and compliance program “PANDORA Ethics” consists of policies, guidelines, and a range of
monitoring and controlling tools, developed to ensure that we honour our ethical commitments.
You will find more detailed material on our corporate website: http://pandoragroup.com/csr.
Here you will find also PANDORA’s Human Rights Policy stipulating PANDORA’s commitment to the
United Nations’ Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights as well as our Responsible
Supplier Policy and Suppliers’ Code of Conduct detailing our expectations to the ethical conduct of
our suppliers within areas such as human and worker’s rights, business integrity and the
environment.

February 2017 | 1 | 4 | Transparency in Supply Chains Statement

PANDORA’s Suppliers’ Code of Conduct clarifies our expectation to the ethical
performance of our suppliers.
The Code’s provision on forced labour states that: “All forms of forced labour, such as
lodging deposits or the retention of identity documents from personnel upon commencing
employment are forbidden as is prisoner labour that violates basic human rights. Neither
the company nor any entity supplying labour to the company shall withhold any part of
any personnel’s salary, benefits, property, or documents in order to force such personnel
to continue working for the company. Personnel shall have the right to leave the
workplace premises after completing the standard workday, and be free to terminate their
employment provided that they give reasonable notice…” and “All workers shall be
provided with a written, understandable and legally binding labour contract. Provisions for
non‐ permanent and seasonal workers shall be no less favourable than for permanent
workers.”

Specific procedures and efforts implemented by PANDORA:
1. Due Diligence of our supply chain:
PANDORA’s Responsible Supplier Program has been in force since 2011 and adopts a four step
approach to supply chain due diligence (screening, training, auditing and implementing corrective
actions).

2. Supplier audits to evaluate compliance:
PANDORA’s key performance sourcing indicator stipulates that 85% of total sourcing value must
come from suppliers who are either successfully audited by third party auditors or certified
members of the Responsible Jewellery Council (RJC). The RJC Code of Practices is the broadest and
strictest standard within the jewellery supply chain and includes provisions against all forms of
forced labour, also comprising human trafficking and modern slavery.
Standard audits within our Responsible Supplier Program comprise production site walk-throughs,
document reviews and worker interviews. If non-compliances are identified, PANDORA’s in-house
experts operating out of Copenhagen, Hong Kong and Bangkok will work with the supplier to
ensure corrective actions and remediation. Finally, compliance is verified through audits carried out
by an independent audit company.

February 2017 | 2 | 4 | Transparency in Supply Chains Statement

Finally, PANDORA is itself a certified member of the Responsible Jewellery Council, acts as industry
chair of the RJC’s multi-stakeholder Standards Setting Committee and holds a seat a RJC Executive
Committee. As an RJC member PANDORA undergo regular re-certification audits.
3. Requires suppliers to certify compliance:
PANDORA’s Suppliers’ Code of Conduct is an enforced part of contracts with third party suppliers.
The Code stipulates that: “The provisions of the code extend to all activities and workers,
including workers who are engaged informally, on short‐ term contracts, or on a part-time
basis. Suppliers must ensure that the Code of Conduct is also observed by subcontractors
involved in production processes of final manufacturing stages carried out on behalf of Pandora”;
and “Suppliers must, in addition to meeting the provisions of this code, comply with all
national laws and regulations…”.
For details on assurance and certification requirements applied by PANDORA in relation to sourcing
of core materials, please refer to the ‘Product’ chapter of the annual Ethics Report, available at:
www.pandoragroup.com/en/CSR/Publications
4. Internal accountability:
PANDORA’s internal Code of Ethics stipulates our ethical aspirations as a company and the rights,
duties and expectations to our employees within areas such as human and workers’ rights, anticorruption and environmental stewardship – including specific provisions prohibiting child and
forced labour. The code has been distributed to all our people worldwide and is accompanied by
group wide training and a mandatory E-learning module.
If employees perceive that laws, internal codes or policies are violated, they are expected to raise
their concerns with their management. If a reported concern is not properly addressed by their
manager, employees shall approach local/Group HR, Legal or Ethics. As a last resort, concerned
employees are encouraged to use the externally administered PANDORA Ethics Hotline. The hotline
enables our people to raise concerns in their own language via the internet or a global toll-free
phone service.
5. Supplier training:
Our Ethics teams, based in Bangkok, Hong Kong and Copenhagen, work extensively with our
suppliers throughout the world to enable them to fully understand our requirements and to inspire
and enable them to implement sustainable solutions. To this end, we provide our suppliers with
training on issues such as safety, health and environmental management as well as human and
workers’ rights. Trainings take place both at our supplier’s premises and at our own crafting
facilities in Thailand where we take pride in showcasing our own best-practice solutions.

February 2017 | 3 | 4 | Transparency in Supply Chains Statement

Key actions in 2016
• PANDORA continues to be certified against the Responsible Jewellery Council’s Code of
Practices, the broadest and strictest standard within the industry (including on human and
workers’ rights) . Visit: http://www.responsiblejewellery.com/ for details
• PANDORA remains an active member of the steering committees of the Danish Business
Network for Human Rights as well as the Danish chapter of the UN Global Compact
• PANDORA’s internal Code of Ethics includes provisions on Human Rights. The code is
applied throughout the global organisation and supported by mandatory Ethics e-learning
module and an externally administered Ethics Hotline.
• 199 participants from key suppliers attended training sessions at the PANDORA production
facilities in Thailand, topics included human and workers’ rights
• We defined and exceeded a new KPI of 85% (up from 80% in 2015) of total sourcing value
coming from suppliers who are either successfully audited by PANDORA’s external auditors
or who are certified members of the Responsible Jewellery Council (RJC)
• 86% of the gold grains used at our crafting facilities in Thailand originated from recycling
and the remaining 14% originated from mining. For silver the corresponding figures were
91% and 9%. All gold and silver sourced were deliver from certified responsible refiners.
• Further reducing human and workers’ rights risk, the vast majority of the approx. 2.7 billion
stones set in our jewellery in 2016 were man-made.

Anders Colding Friis
President & Chief Executive Officer

February 2017 | 4 | 4 | Transparency in Supply Chains Statement

