TRANSPA REN CY I N
SUPPLY CHA IN S
STA TEM EN T
PANDORA’s Transparency in Supply Chain Statement in accordance with the California
Transparency in Supply Chains Act and the UK Modern Slavery Act
PANDORA believes that corporate social responsibility (CSR) and our aspiration to offer highquality and contemporary jewellery go hand in hand. Responsible business practices and social
awareness are virtues which we strive to honour in all operations. A central part of this is our
continued efforts to ensure responsible supply chains for the sourcing of jewellery and point of
sale materials.
Our CSR and compliance program PANDORA Ethics consists of policies, guidelines, and a range
of monitoring and controlling tools, developed to ensure that we honour our ethical
commitments. You will find more detailed material on our corporate website:
http://pandoragroup.com/csr.
Here you will find also PANDORA’s Human Rights Policy stipulating PANDORA’s commitment to
the United Nations’ Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights as well as our Responsible
Supplier Policy and Suppliers’ Code of Conduct detailing our expectations to the ethical conduct
of our suppliers within areas such as human and worker’s rights, business integrity and
environment.

PANDORA's Supplier Code of Conduct clarifies our expectation to the ethical
performance of our suppliers within the realms of human rights, business integrity,
working conditions and the environment.
The Code’s provision on forced labour states that: “All forms of forced labour, such as
lodging deposits or the retention of identity documents from personnel upon
commencing employment are forbidden as is prisoner labour that violates basic human
rights. Neither the company nor any entity supplying labour to the company shall
withhold any part of any personnel’s salary, benefits, property, or documents in order
to force such personnel to continue working for the company. Personnel shall have the
right to leave the workplace premises after completing the standard workday, and be
free to terminate their employment provided that they give reasonable notice…” and
“All workers shall be provided with a written, understandable and legally binding
labour contract. Provisions for non‐ permanent and seasonal workers shall be no less
favourable than for permanent workers.”

9 February 2016 | 1 | 3 | Transparency in Supply Chains Statement

Actions taken to prevent and mitigate the risk of forced labour, modern slavery
and human trafficking in PANDORA’s supply chain:
1. Due Diligence of our supply chain:
PANDORA’s Responsible Supplier Program has been in force since 2011 and adopts a four step
approach to supply chain due diligence (screening, training, auditing and implementing
corrective actions).

2. Supplier audits to evaluate compliance:
PANDORA’s key performance sourcing indicator stipulates that 80% of total sourcing value must
come from suppliers who are either successfully audited by PANDORA’s external auditors or
certified members of the Responsible Jewellery Council (RJC). The RJC Code of Practices is the
broadest and strictest standard within the jewellery supply chain and includes provisions
against all forms of forced labour, also comprising human trafficking and modern slavery.
Standard audits within our Responsible Supplier Program comprise production site walkthroughs, document reviews and worker interviews. If non-compliances are identified,
PANDORA’s in-house experts based in Copenhagen, Hong Kong and Bangkok will cooperate with
the supplier to ensure corrective actions and remediation. Finally, compliance is verified
through audits carried out by an independent audit company.
Finally, PANDORA is itself a certified member of the Responsible Jewellery Council and currently
acts as industry chair of the RJC’s multi-stakeholder Standards Setting Committee. As an RJC
member PANDORA we undergo regular certification audits.
3. Requires suppliers to certify compliance:
PANDORA’s Suppliers’ Code of Conduct is an enforced part of our contracts with third party
suppliers, stipulating that: “The provisions of the code extend to all activities and workers,
including workers who are engaged informally, on short‐ term contracts, or on a parttime basis. Suppliers must ensure that the Code of Conduct is also observed by
subcontractors involved in production processes of final manufacturing stages carried out on
behalf of Pandora”; and “Suppliers must, in addition to meeting the provisions of this code,
comply with all national laws and regulations…”.
For details on assurance and certification requirements applied by PANDORA in relation to
sourcing of core materials, please refer to the ‘Product’ chapter of the annual Ethics Report,
available at: www.pandoragroup.com/en/CSR/Publications

9 February 2016 | 2 | 3 | Transparency in Supply Chains Statement

4. Internal accountability:
PANDORA’s internal Code of Ethics stipulates our ethical aspirations as a company and the
rights, duties and expectations to our employees within areas such as human and workers’
rights, anti-corruption and environmental stewardship. The code has been distributed to all our
people worldwide and is accompanied by group wide training and a mandatory E-learning
module.
If employees perceive that laws, internal codes or policies are being violated, they are expected
to raise their concerns with their management. If a reported concern is not properly addressed
by their manager, employees shall approach local/Group HR, Legal or CSR. As a last resort,
concerned employees are encouraged to use the externally administered PANDORA Ethics
Hotline. The hotline enables our people to raise concerns in their own language internet or a
toll-free phone service.
5. Supplier training:
Our CSR teams, based in Bangkok, Hong Kong and Copenhagen, work extensively with our
suppliers throughout the world to enable them to fully understand our requirements and to
inspire and enable them to implement sustainable solutions. To this end, we provide our
suppliers with frequent training seminars on issues such as safety, health and environmental
management, human and workers’ rights. Trainings frequently take place at our own crafting
facilities in Thailand where we take pride in showcasing our own best-practice solutions.

Key actions in 2015
 PANDORA successfully recertified against the Responsible Jewellery Council’s Code of
Practices, the broadest and strictest standard within the industry (including on human
and workers’ rights).
 Implementation of PANDORA’s internal Code of Ethics throughout the global
organisation including the introduction of mandatory Ethics e-learning module.
 Approximately 150 participants from key suppliers attending training sessions at the
PANDORA production facility in Thailand including on human and workers’ rights.
 Exceeding the target of 80% of total sourcing value coming from suppliers who are
either successfully audited by PANDORA’s external auditors or certified members of the
Responsible Jewellery Council (RJC)
 96% of the gold grains used at our crafting facilities in Thailand originated from recycling
and the remaining 4% from certified responsible mining. For silver the corresponding
figures were 83 and 17% respectively. Further reducing human and workers’ rights risk,
the vast majority of the 2.6 billion stones set in our jewellery in 2015 were man-made.

Anders Colding Friis
President & Chief Executive Officer

ABOUT PANDORA
PANDORA designs, manufactures and markets hand-finished and contemporary jewellery made from high-quality materials at
affordable prices. PANDORA jewellery is sold in more than 100 countries on six continents through approximately 9,300 points
of sale, including around 1,800 concept stores.
Founded in 1982 and headquartered in Copenhagen, Denmark, PANDORA employs more than 16,700 people worldwide of
whom approximately 11,000 are located in Gemopolis, Thailand, where the company manufactures its jewellery. PANDORA is
publicly listed on the NASDAQ Copenhagen stock exchange in Denmark. In 2015, PANDORA’s total revenue was DKK 16.7
billion (approximately EUR 2.2 billion).

9 February 2016 | 3 | 3 | Transparency in Supply Chains Statement

