For the financial year ended 30 January 2017

Perry Ellis Europe Limited
Modern Slavery Statement 2017

In compliance with the UK Modern Slavery Act of 2015, the following document discloses Perry Ellis Europe Limited
policies and actions relating to slavery and human trafficking in the supply chain.

Perry Ellis Europe Limited believes that every person has a right to decent and humane working conditions.
Accordingly, PEEL is committed to ensuring that our business and supply chain reflects our values. We are dedicated to
developing our practices and strictly prohibit the use of forced or compulsory labor, slavery, and human trafficking.

PEEL is a wholly owned subsidiary of Perry Ellis International, Inc. (collectively, ?Company??); which has its corporate office
in Miami, Florida, United States. Perry Ellis International, Inc. through itself and wholly owned subsidiaries has approximately
2,500 employees worldwide, with offices and/or operations in the United States, Asia, Canada, Europe, and Mexico and has
sourced goods and services globally for over 45 years. Company is a global leader in the design, manufacturing, marketing and
distribution of branded lifestyle apparel and accessories.

Our internal policies includes a Vendor Code of Conduct that outlines the minimum working and environmental conditions that
all direct suppliers must meet prior to conducting business with PEEL, ensuring that we are promoting and enforcing ethical
behaviors in our supply chain. Our Vendor Code of Conduct prohibits the use of child or forced labor and discrimination in
employment. It also requires that lawful wages and benefits are provided, health and safety standards are complied with, and
environmental laws are adhered to. Below is an outline of the steps we are taking to promote our efforts in this regard:

1. Asa condition of doing business, we require our suppliers to certify in writing via the our Master Supply Agreement
and Vendor Code of Conduct that they comply with all applicable laws within the country of business including those
regarding slavery and human trafficking.

2. We maintain and enforce internal accountability procedures for our employees and compliance by direct suppliers
regarding company standards on slavery and human trafficking. In the case of non-compliance we reserve the right to
investigate the situation and develop a best possible strategy for resolution. If non-compliance continues unresolved
within a timely manner, we may terminate the business relationship.

3. Regular audits are conducted on our direct suppliers. Direct suppliers are evaluated on their compliance with our code
through announced and unannounced audits conducted by our internal auditors and third party audit providers. In
financial year 2017, our assessment criteria was enhanced to incorporate additional indicators to assist with identifying
potential risks associated with human trafficking and slavery.

4. We conduct internal training on our Vendor Code of Conduct to ensure the necessary participants who have direct
responsibility for supply chain management are knowledgeable and aware of the issues and concerns surrounding the
supply chain involving human trafficking and slavery including mitigating risks within the supply chain of products
sourced by Company. In financial year 2018, we intend to extend our training scope to incorporate all business areas
and leadership teams within the Company. We also strongly encourage our supply chain to participate in external
training programs and seminars on social compliance issues.

To download a copy of our Vendor Code of Conduct, please click the following link:


This statement is made pursuant to section 54(1) of the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015 and constitutes our slavery and human
trafficking statement for the financial year ending January 30, 2017.

This statement was approved by the Board of Perry Ellis Europe Limited.

 

 

 

 

ulie Reeve
Director, Perry Ellis Europe Limited
August 2017
