MODERN SLAVERY ACT 2015
PHASE EIGHT TRANSPARENCY STATEMENT
2019 (FY 2018-2019)
This statement is made pursuant to section 54 of the Modern Slavery Act 2015. It sets out the steps Phase Eight
has taken during the

8/ 9 financial year the Year to prevent slavery and human trafficking from taking

place in our supply chains or in any part of our business, and the additional steps we plan to take in 2019.

WHAT IS MODERN SLAVERY?
About 150 years after most countries banned slavery millions of men, women and children are still enslaved.
Contemporary slavery, as defined in the 1956 UN supplementary convention, takes many forms, including debt
bondage, servitude, child slavery, forced labour and human trafficking. Anti-Slavery International defines Modern
Slavery as exploitative labour that places one person in the control of another.
Slavery thrives on every continent and in almost every country, and is still prevalent in the fashion industry and
other labour-intensive industries.
Modern Slavery is a violation of human rights where victims are denied their basic rights to dignity, freedom and
security. Victims are trapped in a situation where they are often powerless and vulnerable, and therefore unable
to leave because they are subject to deception, mental and/or physical abuse, threats and punishment.

ABOUT TFG LONDON
Headquartered in London, TFG London is owned by The Foschini Group Limited TFG , a leading publicly listed
South African retail group. TFG first entered the UK market (forming TFG London) through the acquisition of the
premium womenswear brand Phase Eight in January 2015. Since then the premium womenswear brands Whistles,
Hobbs, Damsel in a Dress and Studio 8 have been added to the Group.
Each brand focuses on a different customer and style, from the contemporary designs at Whistles to understated
British elegance at Hobbs and exclusive occasion and daywear collections at Phase Eight with 200 UK solus
stores, 450 UK concessions and 250 International stores, concessions & online partners.
TFG London employs 141 people who work across all brands, both in Head Office and Retail Concessions.
Location

Number of Employees

Head office

25

Retail Concessions

115

Due to supply chain complexities, each brand publishes their own Modern Slavery statement, outlining the nature
of their operations and supply chains, providing an overview of the steps they have taken to combat Modern
Slavery.

1

ABOUT PHASE EIGHT
Founded In 1979, Phase Eight is a premium British womenswear brand producing clothing, footwear and
accessories. Phase Eight has two sister brands, Studio 8 launched in 2015 and Damsel in a Dress relaunched in
2017.
Based in the UK, Phase Eight is headquartered in London with its customer services operations and Distribution
Centre (DC) based in Rochester. Phase Eight s DC is operated by a third party logistics company.
Phase Eight has a strong international retail presence, operating in 10 territories across 403 solus stores and
concessions.
Phase Eight employs 2,275 people as detailed below.
Location

Number of Employees

Headquarters

318

Distribution Centre

101

Retail Sites (UK & ROI)

1550

International Retail sites

306

Phase Eight manufactures its own brand products through a global network of 78 external suppliers; 42 direct
suppliers and 36 agents in 155 first tier production sites. Further to its tier one suppliers, Phase Eight has partially
mapped its second tier primary process suppliers providing processes such as stitching, cutting, quality control
and packing. Phase Eight does not have direct relationships with these suppliers and are managed via its tier one
suppliers.
Phase Eight sources its fabrics, components and raw materials through the same network.
Phase Eights top 5 sourcing countries are China, Romania, Turkey, India and Greece, representing 90% of
purchasing volumes delivered in 2018.
In addition to its own brand products, Phase Eight stocks products by third party brands, sold online. All third
party brands are required to submit a Self-Assessment Questionnaire (SAQ) to assess ethical suitability and ensure
both parties are aligned.

OUR SUPPLY CHAIN
Phase Eight is committed to ensure its supply chains promote safe, fair and legal working conditions. We expect
our business, suppliers and third party brands to abide by local laws, international labour and human rights
standards in all countries we and they operate.
Our supply chain is divided into two-channels;

2

Own Operations

Products for re-sale

(Non-stock items and services)

Own brand products sold online and in-store

Non stock items and services such as customer

Third party brands products sold online

deliveries, logistics, IT, cleaning and catering

OWN OPERATIONS (NON-STOCK ITEMS AND SERVICES)
Phase Eight s non-stock products and services are manged by its procurement team and supported by the CSR &
Sustainability team, as well as the Legal team.
Services include logistics, facilities maintenance, catering and cleaning.
In addition, Phase Eight s DC is owned and operated by MIQ Logistics by a third party logistics company based in
the UK, employing 101 people.

PRODUCTS FOR RE-SALE
Phase Eight s own-brand products are designed and developed at its headquarters in London and manufactured
through an established global network of external suppliers.
Phase Eight s sourcing landscape is collaboratively managed by the Buying, Technical, Merchandising and Design
departments with the support of the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and Sustainability team, collectively
referred to as the Sourcing team.
In October 2018, TFG London introduced a CSR & Sustainability team to establish an ethical trade and
sustainability strategy. With an independent view point, the team are tasked with supporting the wider sourcing
team to ensure all own-brand product and raw material suppliers are selected on ethical and sustainable merit in
addition to commercial requirements.
Phase Eights supply chain is defined as follows
Tier

Definition

Example

Status

1

Main Production Sites

A factory that cuts, makes and trims Phase

Mapped

Eight product, shipping directly to Phase Eight
2

Primary Process

A provider of one or more processes such as,

Subcontractor

stitching, cutting, packing and QC, shipping to

Partially Mapped

Phase Eight
3

Secondary Process

A provider of one or more processes such as,

Subcontractor

stitching, cutting, packing and QC, embroidery,

Not Mapped

dyeing, shipping to Phase Eight
4

Fabric and Components

Fabric mills, Tanneries, hardware and trims

Not Mapped

5

Raw Materials

Textile fibres, natural and synthetic materials

Not Mapped

3

POLICIES
As part of Phase Eights evolving ethical trade efforts, the business adopted operational policies at group level in
2017, with the view of respecting, protecting and remedying the human and labour rights of all that work on our
behalf. The group policy strategy is based on the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs)
and the ETI Human Rights Due Diligence Framework.
Phase Eight s core policies relating to our commitment to adopting the UNGPs, to benefit all those who work on
behalf of Phase Eight are our Supplier Code of Conduct, Migrant Workers Employment Policy and
Implementation Guidelines and the Young Worker and Child Labour Policy.
Phase Eight s supplier code of conduct is aligned with the Ethical Trading Initiative base code, with elements of
the SA1000 Standard:2014. It outlines the minimum social and environmental standards we expect each factory
to meet and our expectations regarding the conditions in which our products should be manufactured.
Our Migrant Worker Employment Policy and Implementation Guidelines set out the supplier requirements to
protect, respect and remedy the rights and welfare of migrant and contract workers, some of the most vulnerable
to exploitation and modern slavery. Within this policy, Phase Eight endorses the Employer Pays Principle, which
reflects the Dhaka Principles for Migration with Dignity.
Our Young Worker and Child Labour Policy prohibits the recruitment of child workers in our supply chains and
outlines remediation guidelines.
Finally other policies that are also related to the prevention of modern slavery are our anti-bribery policy,
whistleblowing policy, equal opportunity policy and our compliance handbook.
To date, all suppliers have received and are signed up to Phase Eight s operational policies.

DUE DILIGENCE
OUR GOVERNANCE
The Managing Director and Phase Eight Board of Directors are responsible for ensuring Phase Eight meets its
human rights responsibilities. They are supported by the CSR & Sustainability team and sourcing team.

RISK ASSESSMENT AND MANAGEMENT
Phase Eight faces human rights risks in its supply chain and as such, we have identified key elements that pose
risks of modern slavery. These include migrant labour, high presence of refugees, young workers and a risk of the
use of child labour, contract and temporary workers, women workers and outsourced recruitment agencies.
We recognise our own operations may have one or more of these modern slavery risks and to gain greater
visibility, we are mapping our non-stock suppliers. Reflecting the key elements that pose risks of modern slavery;
logistics, facilities maintenance, catering and temporary workers have been prioritised.
Phase Eight endorses a holistic approach to its risk assessment and acknowledges that each area is part of a wider
due-diligence process that works to harmonise our approach. Our current risk prioritisation is focused on the

4

manufacturing of our own brand products and the below outlines some of the steps we have taken to mitigate
and manage human rights risks in our supply chain.
Mapping our supply chain is an essential piece of work in managing and mitigating risk. In 2018 and with the
support of the CSR & Sustainability team, Phase Eight revisited and enhanced its mapping efforts, detailing the
labour landscape of our supply chain and obtaining key data about the workforce such as age, gender, migration,
temporary and homeworking and worker representation. Although we acknowledge that the nature of supply
chains is to continuously evolve, we are working towards long lasting and meaningful partnerships with our
suppliers, enabling us to foster a culture of transparency and continue to map beyond tier one.
As a recent integrated business practice, all new suppliers are assessed based on their ethical credentials, in
addition to commercial requirements. Suppliers are required to submit a Self-Assessment Questionnaire (SAQ) and
sign up to our core polices (as detailed above). Together, these documents outline our expectations and
requirements, and in return, allow us to review key labour practices. We also require a third-party factory audit,
verifying the information disclosed in the SAQ. Should an issue be present, this is highlighted to the sourcing team,
lending to the overall sourcing decision and supplier strategy going forward.
Phase Eight have been members of Sedex since 2016 and utilise the platform to share and exchange audit data.
Utilising its positon within TFG London, and as part of our on-going risk assessment and sourcing strategy, Phase
Eight engages with other stakeholders, working together to build leverage and find common solutions to salient
issues. This includes reviewing shared intelligence on Modern Slavery risks, how to manage and mitigate and
provide remedy in instances of abuse.
In an effort to increase presence on the ground at factory level, Phase Eight has adopted material used to engage
with suppliers regarding their working environment and labour practices. The material is designed to raise
awareness of the key elements that pose Modern Slavery risks, such as recruitment practices, employment types
and skillsets, while capturing current practices and outlining recommendations where needed. Attended by the
Technical team and supported by the CSR team, the material is completed during an opening meeting and factory
tour, allowing for a well-rounded collaborative approach, considering product type, production processes and
general site management.

TRAINING
The Modern Slavery Act is an opportunity to embed a greater understanding of human rights within our supply
chain and extend awareness internally. We are committed to improve our approach and this year Phase Eight will
adopt a TFG London e-learning module covering Modern Slavery risks. This will be distributed across the wider
business and sourcing team.

NEXT STEPS
Phase Eight is committed to advancing its approach to ethical trade and mitigating Modern Slavery risks.
This year we will continue to focus on transparency, mapping second and third tier secondary process suppliers
and fully map our own operations to include all non-stock suppliers.

5

In January 2019 Phase Eight became members of the Ethical Trading Initiative (ETI) and joined like-minded brands,
focusing on implementing ethical sourcing practices. Phase Eight will use ETI s multi-stakeholder platform to
collaborate and get involved in working groups and initiatives to further mitigate and manage its approach to risk
assessment.
Advancing our efforts on the ground, going forward a representative from the CSR & Sustainability team will
accompany the members of the sourcing team during factory visits, directly engaging with suppliers on key
elements that pose risks of Modern Slavery while reviewing current working environments and labour practices.
Finally, Phase Eight will develop KPIs, detailing the Modern Slavery risks we have identified, the steps we ve taken
to mitigate these and our future commitment.

This statement was approved by the Phase Eight Board of Directors

Simon Pickering, Managing Director
March 2019
© Phase Eight (Fashion & Designs) Limited 2019. All rights reserved.

6

