RADLEY

Here at Radley, we are proud of the steps we have taken to combat slavery and human trafficking in
our supply chain. We consistently audit our supply chain and carefully select partners to ensure that
our ethical standards are being strictly maintained and that the factories we use to manufacture our
products are fair and safe places for workers.

Supply Chain Audits:
Radley uses accredited third party auditors to regularly assess our factories' compliance with our fair
labour standards. One of these entities is lntertek - a leading quality assurance service provider.
lntertek carries out regular audits and produces Workplace Conditions Assessment Reports (a
"WCA") for Radley to monitor and assess the labour standards in each factory used by Radley. Each
factory is rated against country and international standards and legislation and scored accordingly.
Radley expects each factory in its supply chain to reach and maintain "High Performance" ratings. Our
most recent WCA gave an overall facility score of 93%, with the reviewed factory achieving above
industry standards in each specific category.
In the event a factory fails to achieve "High Performance", the factory will be expected to follow
lntertek's recommendations for improvement. Radley reviews the WCA alongside the relevant factory
so that it is aware of, and can monitor, the next steps being taken to improve the facility.

Supplier's Compliance with Production Standards:
In a bid to ensure compliance throughout the supply chain, Radley includes its ethical Production
Standards as part of the Supply Agreement that it has in place with each supplier. These Production
Standards are also included as part of the Recommended Supply Subcontractor Agreement which
Radley requires all suppliers to use in the event that they wish to sub-contract any p-art of the
manufacture or production of Radley products. Radley's Production Standards have been designed to
ensure that workers in the factories that manufacture our products are treated ethically and work in
safe conditions. Our Production Standards have been developed using the Ethical Trading Initiative's
Base Code (which is derived from the International Labour Organization's principals on ethical labour)
and, as such, we are confident that our Production Standards are sufficiently robust and effective in
the current climate.
We use our Production Standards and Recommended Supply Subcontractor Agreement to
communicate to our suppliers our expectations of how they should conduct themselves and their
factories (or any factories that they use for the production of our products). Here at Radley, we will
only work with supply partners who sign up to, and comply with, our approved Production Standards.
A PDF copy of our Production Standards can be found here.
In the event that a supplier fails to meet our internal accountability standards and procedures for fair
labour standards, we will look to take corrective action and to develop a remediation plan.

