Modern Slavery Act
Transparency Statement
2016-17
Whistles is a contemporary fashion brand based in London. We are committed
to conducting business within the spirit of ethical standards, and to having a
positive impact on our stakeholders and those who work at Whistles.
Whilst we are in the early stages of our corporate social responsibility journey,
we firmly believe the work we have started reflects our commitment to providing
those that work for us with dignified work and we have put human rights and
higher labour standards at the centre of our programme.
The complexity of modern slavery allows it to exist in many forms and greater
transparency will allow us to identify risks and prioritise how to approach
the issue in the most effective way.
This transparency statement sets out some of the steps that Whistles has taken
to ensure that modern slavery and human trafficking are not present in our business
operations and supply chains. It covers the financial year ending 31 March 2017 and
has been published in accordance with the Modern Slavery Act 2015 (the “Act”).

Whistles Modern Slavery Act Transparency Statement 2016–17

1

Our Business Organisation and Supply Chain
Whistles is a UK-based multi-channel brand. We operate in 11 territories across the globe through
wholesale, concessions, solus sites, franchise and web. We employ 729 people, with 552 employees
in the UK across our 49 stores and 29 concessions, 102 in Head Office and 75 in our international
stores across Europe and the USA.

London
head office

Stores
across the UK

102

552

France

Spain

Ireland

USA

5

9

34

27

Our product is manufactured across 19 countries. We have an active supply base of 134 units
comprising 102 factories through 98 suppliers, 23 factories through agents, and 9 factories
through other brands that we sell in-store. Our top 5 sourcing countries are China, Portugal,
Turkey, India and Romania.

Whistles Modern Slavery Act Transparency Statement 2016–17

2

Our Policies
In addition to the Whistles code of conduct, in 2016 we developed the following policies which are
also relevant to the Act and which will be implemented and published 2017. They are:

The Whistles Buying Policy
The Whistles Human Rights Policy
These policies are designed to support ethical sourcing and labour standards and are based
on the ILO labour standards, the UN Declaration on Human Rights, and the Guiding Principles
for Business and Human Rights.

Our Supplier Code of Conduct (“Code of Conduct”) is aligned with the Ethical Trading Initiative
(“ETI”) framework and outlines the minimum social and environmental standards we expect
each factory to meet and our expectations regarding the conditions in which our products
should be manufactured.
The Code of Conduct explicitly states that Whistles expects all employment to be freely
chosen and working conditions to be safe and hygienic. Child labour is prohibited, living wages
are to be paid, working hours should not be excessive and workers should not be subjected
to harsh or inhumane treatment.
We ask all suppliers to sign our Code of Conduct, and we ask them to obtain the same from
their sub-contractors to maintain consistent labour standards across all aspects of production.
The supplier is responsible for ensuring that the Code of Conduct is implemented and adhered
to by all of its approved subcontractors and business partners.
We will only do business with suppliers that share our commitment to fair and safe
labour practices and who sign up to our Code of Conduct.
Our Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy, Equal Opportunities Policy and Whistleblowing Policy
sit alongside the Code of Conduct and we expect our suppliers to implement these policies
as if they were their own.

Whistles Modern Slavery Act Transparency Statement 2016–17

3

Our Risk Assessment and Management
Whistles sees the mapping of the supply chain as an essential piece of work in managing and
mitigating risks. In 2016 we carried out a supply chain mapping exercise and now have visibility
of all of our first tier suppliers. We acknowledge that the supply chain is constantly moving as new
suppliers are added in line with our growth and some suppliers are removed. Therefore, we plan to
review this on an annual basis and we will expand this process to encompass second-tier
suppliers involved in processes such as printing, embroidery and finishing.

Factory Audits
We review our first-tier factories at source on an annual basis, either by carrying out Whistles ethical
audits or third party social audits through SEDEX. As members of ETI we use a public methodology
called SEDEX Members Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA) as the basis for our audits.
All suppliers and factories undergo ethical audits and social compliance reviews prior to their
engagement. Each season we review the compliance of our key suppliers with respect to the
commercial and ethical criteria we set. We share our findings with our suppliers and highlight
areas which should be addressed in order to improve performance.
When issues occur, we highlight these to the Suppliers and work with them to help resolve
any non-conformance in a timely manner.
Though monitoring may highlight the issues occurring at a factory level we acknowledge that in
order to solve such issues we need to identify and address the root causes behind them.
Being a member of the ETI gives Whistles the opportunity to collaborate and work with other
brands, organisations, NGOs and Trade Unions to identify and address the root causes that
lead to problems at factories.
The SEDEX platform enables members to report on trends across the supply chain and to liaise with
one another where indications of forced or bonded labour arise so that these can be followed up.

Whistles Modern Slavery Act Transparency Statement 2016–17

4

Corporate Social Responsibility
Working Committee
In 2016 we set up a Corporate Social Responsibility Working Committee comprising members
from a range of departments in the organisation, including Technical & Compliance, Logistics,
Buying, IT, Legal, Brand, HR and Communications. The committee meets on a monthly basis
and provides us with the opportunity to explore and discuss matters of corporate responsibility
at management level. The outcomes of these meeting are communicated to all appropriate
levels and areas of the business.

Training
Training on ethical buying, social compliance and factory engagement programmes was
issued to the buying, design and senior management teams within Whistles’ Head Office.
This will be repeated in 2017.

Whistles Modern Slavery Act Transparency Statement 2016–17

5

Our next steps
The next steps for us as an organisation will be:

Create remediation

Collaboration work with

Focus on two key

Use ETI framework

policies on Child labour

external peers to effect

projects: Cotton Pledge

on Human Rights due

and Modern Slavery.

change at factory level.

and Turkey Syrian Crisis.

dilligence to support
our CSR program and
employment rights of
workers in Turkley.

Develop a strategy that

Monitor and report the

Ensure labour standards

Initiate and organise

includes clear targets

number and proportion of

and human rights’

capacity building projects

for managing labour

direct suppliers that have

training is provided to

relevant to its supply

standards and human

a valid social compliance

supplier’s management

chain, and maintains

right in the supply chain,

audit from the last year,

teams, and maintains

learning and feedback

and monitors on-going

and records suppliers in

records of training

mechanisms to ensure

progress against these

full compliance with the

coverage through

that the lessons learned

targets.

relevant social standards.

Supplier Workshops.

are built into the brand
activities on labour
standards and human
rights.

Whistles Modern Slavery Act Transparency Statement 2016–17

6

Whistles remains committed to working towards the elimination of Modern Slavery and will continue
to take steps to mitigate the risks in 2017 and onwards. Our aim is to further strengthen and
promote our core values of fairness, integrity, transparency and collaboration, and as such we will
be updating this statement annually.
The statement has been approved by the board of directors.

Justin Hampshire
Managing Director
On behalf of the Board of directors

Whistles Modern Slavery Act Transparency Statement 2016–17

7

