Whistles Modern Slavery Act Transparency Statement
Financial year 2018/2019
This statement is made pursuant to Section 54 of the Modern Slavery Act 2015. It sets out
the steps Whistleshas taken during the 2018/2019 financial year (the “Year”) to prevent
slavery and human trafficking from taking place in our supply chains or in any part of our
business, and the additional steps we plan to take in 2019.
Modern Slavery
About 150 years after most countries banned slavery millions of men, women and children
are still enslaved. Contemporary slavery, as defined in the 1956 UN supplementary
convention, takes many forms, including debt bondage, servitude, child slavery, forced
labour and human trafficking. Anti Slavery International defines Modern Slavery as
exploitative labour that places one person in the control of another. Slavery thrives on every
continent and in almost every country, and is still prevalent in the fashion industry and other
labour-intensive industries.
Modern Slavery is a violation of human rights where victims are denied their basic rights
to dignity, freedom and security. Victims are trapped in a situation where they are often
powerless and vulnerable, and therefore unable to leave because they are subject to
deception, mental and/or physical abuse, threats and punishment.
Whistles is committed to respecting, protecting and advocating for the human rights of all
the stakeholders who are involved in our own operations. As such we accept that is our
responsibility to support transparency and integrity, to be proactive in resolving problems
and to collaborate with others to protect the human and labour rights of workers.

What is Modern Slavery?

To help us identify better what to look for, we have broken down Modern Slavery into four key
areas:
Forced labour
The International Labour Organisation (ILO) defines forced or compulsory labour as “all
work or service which is exacted from any person under the threat of a penalty and for
which the person has not offered himself or herself voluntarily.” This means any work or
service that people are forced to carry out against their will or under threat.
Human trafficking
Anti-Slavery International defines human trafficking as the “recruitment, harbouring
or transporting of people into a situation of exploitation through the use of violence,
deception or coercion and forced to work against their will.” In other words, it’s the act
of placing someone into a situation of exploitation. Often this involves moving someone
across borders, however human trafficking can also occur within a single country.
Bonded labour
Also known as ‘debt bondage’ or ‘debt slavery’, this is the most prevalent form of modern
slavery. It refers to anybody forced to work to pay off a debt, resulting in them working
for little or no pay, and having no control over their debt. For example, labourers might
borrow money to pay their traffickers for promised work overseas. When they arrive, their
passports are confiscated by the traffickers and they cannot leave until they ‘pay off’ the
money.
Child slavery
This occurs when a child or a child’s labour is exploited for someone else’s gain. It
can include child trafficking and child domestic slavery. The minimum age can change
depending on the kind of work, but it refers to any work that is dangerous and harmful
to children, or interferes with their education

Some key facts
Anti-Slavery International estimates around 21 million people are involved in forced labour at
any given time. Below is a summary of some key statistics:
20.9 million people are in modern slavery across the world
5.5 million children are in slavery across the world
11.7 million people are in slavery in the Asia-Pacific region, mostly in bonded labour
3.7million people are in slavery in Africa
1.6 million people are in slavery in Latin America
1.5 million people are in slavery in developed economies
14.2 million slavery victims are exploited in economic activities
4.5 million people are in forced into sexual exploitation
98% of people trafficked for sexual exploitation are women and girls
2.2 million people in slavery are exploited by governments
Who does modern slavery affect?
Modern Slavery exists anywhere in the worlds and can affect people of any gender, age or
race. Modern slavery most commonly affects people who are vulnerable and at risk of being
taken advantage of – like someone living in poverty, or someone from a community that is
discriminated against (for example migrant workers). A typical scenario features someone
who is enticed to accept a job offer abroad that turns out to be very different to that what
was promised and then remain bonded to the organisers of the scheme, often referred to as
‘gangmasters’.
Why is it an issue?
A report by the Walk Free Foundation, has found that the fashion industry contributes
more money toward modern slavery than any other sector apart from tech. The lack of
transparency and traceability across the fashion global supply chains is a major challenge.
This means that it’s extremely difficult to know how many people are working directly or
indirectly in fashion, and the conditions that they are working in.
Modern slavery takes place at different stages of the supply chain, and across all industry
sectors. In labour-intensive industries such as fashion, products are touched by many pairs
of hands before they reach final consumers. While Tier 1 factories are often audited in long
supply chains, many secondary tiers are not. This makes it difficult to assess with certainty
that modern slavery is not present.
Modern slavery in the global context
International NGOs
Non-governmental organisations (NGOs) have a big impact on Modern Slavery legislation
and awareness. They provide research and data about the current impacts of modern slavery,
helping businesses and governments to take action and manage risk.
Our partner Anti Slavery International is the world’s oldest anti-slavery charity, formed in
1839. They advise governments on legislation and were part of the development of some of
the world’s major slavery laws. They work with us to help identify slavery in global supply
chains by advising on the best ways to stop slavery practices.

Whistles also refers to the Global Slavery Index and its interactive data maps, tools that lists
countries according to the number of people in Modern Slavery, and analyses government
action in response to this. It’s been created by the Walk Free Foundation, whose mission is to
end slavery in all forms.
Global Legislation
Modern Slavery Act legislation has been rapidly spreading right across the world as demand
grows for companies to publicly disclose their efforts to address slavery and human
trafficking in their supply chains. As well as the UK Modern Slavery Act (see section 5.7 for
further information), global legislation includes:
•The Modern Slavery Act 2018 (‘New South Wales Act’) and the Modern Slavery Bill 2018
(‘Commonwealth Bill’) in Australia 8
•The 2017 Hong Kong Bill
•The 2014 Singapore Prevention of Human Trafficking Act
We expect more countries to follow the UK’s lead in setting up similar legislation to curb
Modern Slavery, however, it is worth pointing out that international provision for decent
labour standards have already been outlined and legislated in most countries around the
world.
About TFG
Headquartered in London, TFG London is owned by The Foschini Group Limited (“TFG”), a
leading publicly listed South African retail group. TFG first entered the UK market (forming
TFG London) through the acquisition of the premium womenswear brand Phase Eight in
January 2015. Since then the premium womenswear brands Whistles, Hobbs, Damsel in a
Dress and Studio 8 have been added to the Group. TFG London is now positioned as the
owner of three of the most successful premium / affordable luxury womenswear brands
in the UK. Each brand focuses on a different customer and style, from the contemporary
designs at Whistles to understated British elegance at Hobbs and exclusive occasion and
daywear collections at Phase Eight with 200 UK solus stores, 450 UK concessions and 250
International stores, concessions & online partners.
TFG London employes 141 people who work across all brands, both in head office and retail
concessions.

Location
Head office

Number of Employees

Retail concessions

25
115

Due to supply chain complexities, each brand publishes their own Modern Slavery statement,
outlining the nature of their operations and supply chains, providing an overview of the steps
they have taken to combat Modern Slavery.

About Whistles
Our Business Organisation
Whistles is a multi-channel fashion brand based in London, selling apparel, footwear and
accessories for the contemporary woman.
Whistles is based in the UK, with a head office in London and additional customer services
team in Rochester. The Whistles distribution centre is currently located in Milton Keynes.
During this financial year we operated in 11 territories across the globe through wholesale,
concessions, solus sites, franchise partners and online. We employ 764 people, with 722
employees in the UK and ROI across our 46 UK and 2 international stores and 84 UK and 37
international concessions, 111 in Head Office and 42 in the USA.
Location

Number of employees

Head Office - London

111

Stores (across the UK)

147

Concessions (across the UK)

431

Stores – Ireland

33

Stores – US

42

Our product is manufactured across 16 countries.
We have an active supply base of 118 manufacturing sites:
• 48 Suppliers who manufacture across 87 factories
• 10 agents who manufacturer across 27 factories
(1 of these being our licensee eyewear supplier/factory)
• 4 third party brands who manufacture out of 4 factories which and sell in store and online.
Our top 5 sourcing countries are China, Portugal, Turkey, Mauritius and India.

Our Supply Chain
Our supply chain is divided into two channels:
• Products for re-sale online and in stores, including Whistles branded products and other
third party brands’ products.
• Non stock items and services, including outsourced customer deliveries, logistics, IT,
cleaning, customer care and catering.
We design our own brand’s products in our head office in London which are manufactured by
third party factories.
The sourcing department (comprised of Technical, Buying, Merchandising and Design)
manages the Whistles brand supply chain. The CSR and Sustainability Executive sits within this
department to ensure that product and raw material suppliers are selected based on ethical
and sustainable credentials together with commercial criteria.
Whistles non-stock products and services are managed by our Procurement Team, supported
by the CSR and Sustainability Team, as well as the Legal Team.
Whistles has an established Modern Slavery Working Group, set up to drive the modern slavery
agenda forward across all departments, looking at both supply chain channels. The modern
slavery working group carries out a risk assessment across our manufacturers, non-stock
suppliers, and Whistles direct employers. Whistles supply chain is defined as follows:

Tier

Definition

Example

Status

1

Main Production Sites

Factory that cuts, makes and trims
Whistles products and ships to Whistles

Fully mapped

2

Primary Process
Subcontractors

Provider of one or more processes
e.g. stitching, cutting, packing,
QC and shipping to Whistles

Fully mapped

3

Secondary Process
Subcontractors

Provider of one or more processes
e.g. stitching, cutting, packing,
QC and shipping to Whistles

Partially mapped

4

Fabric and Components

Fabric mills, tanneries, hardwear
and trims

Partially mapped

5

Raw Materials

Textile fibres, natural and synthetic
materials

Not mapped

Our Policies
As part of our ever evolving ethical trading strategy based on the UN Guiding Principles on
Business and Human Rights (UNGPs) and the ETI Human Rights Due Diligence Framework,
we have developed our operational policies with the view of respecting, protecting and
remedying the human and labour rights of all that work on our behalf.
Whistles core policies relating to our commitment to adopting the UNGPs, to benefit all those
who work on behalf of Whistles are our Supplier Code of Conduct, the Migrant Workers
Employment Policy and Implementation Guidelines and the Young Worker and Child Labour
Policy.
Our Supplier Code of Conduct (“Code of Conduct”) is aligned with the Ethical Trading
Initiative (“ETI”) base code, with elements of the SAI SA1000 Standard:2014. It outlines
the minimum social and environmental standards we expect each factory to meet and our
expectations regarding the conditions in which our products should be manufactured.
Our Migrant Workers Employment Policy and Implementation Guidelines set out the supplier
requirement to protect, respect and remedy the rights and welfare of migrant and contract
workers, some of the most vulnerable to exploitation and modern slavery. Within this policy,
Whistles endorses the Employer Pays Principle, which reflects the Dhaka Principles for
Migration with Dignity.
Our Young Worker and Child Labour Policy prohibits the recruitment of child workers
in our supply chains and outlines remediation guidelines.
Finally other policies that are also related to the prevention of modern slavery are our
Anti Bribery Policy, Whistleblowing Policy, Equal Opportunity Policy and our Compliance
Handbook.
Due Diligence
Our Governance
The Managing Director and Whistles Board of Directors are responsible for ensuring Whistles
meets its human rights responsibilities. They are supported by the CSR and Sustainability
Executive and the Sourcing team.
Our Risk Assessment and Management
Whistles has identified the key elements that pose a risk of modern slavery in our supply
chain. Modern Slavery depends on multiple factors, some of which are beyond our control
(i.e. external factors). However many factors have to do with our own business model and
practices
External Factors
• Poverty
• Lack of well paid, safe jobs
• Discrimination against vulnerable people and minority groups
• Poor local laws and lack of enforcement
• Corruption of government agencies, businesses and collusion
• No regulation of recruitment agencies

Business Models
• Short lead times
• Unrealistic expectations
• Speed and price precedes ethical standards
• Delayed payments
• Sub-contracting
• Extended and complex employment relationships
• Use of labour recruiters and brokers
External factors are risks that we cannot control, such as poverty and corruption. We are
aware that we may not be able to respond to them, however wherever possible we try to gain
an understanding of what can contribute to Modern Slavery.
The Global Slavery Index has found that there are two main key risk drivers:
•

Repressive regimes where the government puts population to work (e.g. North Korea)

•

Conflict situations where laws, social structures, and normal protection systems are not
working (e.g. the refugee crisis in Syria)

At the same time our business model can have a direct effect on increasing the risk of
modern slavery occurring in our supply chain.
For this very reason in 2018 Whistles joined Better Buying in order to voluntarily scrutinise our
own purchasing practices to assess how our business model might impact our supply chain
partners.
•

We know that unrealistic expectations about lead times can cause suppliers to slip on
their ethical standards in order to meet high-pressure expectations from clients. As such
we talk with them to understand what deadlines are actually possible to meet.

•

We ensure our Ethical Trade Policy is prioritised over any cuts on delivery speed and
price and align our procurement practices in line with these standards.

•

We discuss payment schedules and margins with suppliers, and ensure we make
payments on time.

•

We ask them about their use of sub-contractors, recruiters and brokers in order to have
visibility of our supply chain.

We believe that business model related factors must be tackled hand-in-hand with our
suppliers. It must be a joint effort, where parties involved trust each other and reciprocate
with honesty and openness.
In addition we are conducting analysis of areas of our business where there is migrant labour,
high presence of refugees, young workers and a risk of the use of child labour, contract and
temporary workers, women workers, outsourced recruitment agencies.
It’s always possible that suppliers have cases of modern slavery in their supply chain but they
may not realise what it is.

We refer to the UK Gangmasters and Labour Abuse Authority (GLA) that has a detailed list of
things to watch out for among the workers in our operations and supply chain. These include
indicators across:
•
•
•
•
•
•

Restricted freedom
Behaviour
Working conditions
Accommodation
Finances
Appearance

We recognise that certain countries within our own operations may have one or more of these
modern slavery risks and as such we have divided them into three different categories of
high, medium and low risk and allocated appropriate priorities. This differentiation was based
upon assessing causes and contribution, direct and indirect impacts as well as level and
influence.
Our priority focus is currently on product manufacture. As such we have developed specific
policies and tools which allow us to investigate further where issues arise.
As part of our risk assessment and management, we partner with specialists on the ground
to further investigations with our suppliers or to raise awareness of potential risks. At the
same time Whistles values its partnerships with key NGOs, suppliers, other brands and
multi stakeholder initiatives, working together on pre-competitive ground to find a common
solution to salient issues.
Mapping our supply chain is an essential piece of work in managing and mitigating risks.
In 2016 we started the mapping of our supply chain, which allowed us to gain visibility of all
our tier 1 suppliers. Although we acknowledge that it is in the nature of supply chains to be
continuously evolving, we are working towards establishing long lasting relationships with
our existing suppliers and the aim for 2019 is to focus on continuing to map our supply base
beyond Tier 1.

Actions taken
During our due diligence process we have identified key modern slavery risks where we
directed our attention.

Modern Slavery Risk

Definition of Issue

Steps Taken

Whistles Commitment

Migrant Labour

Migrant workers paying
recruitment fees might be
trapped in bonded labour and
be subjected to substandard
employment terms

Developed our Migrant
Workers Employment
Policy and Implementation
Guidelines

Further our commitment to
map and carry out a risk
assessment of migrant labour
across our supply chain

Conducted an extensive
impact assessment of our
Mauritian factory

Revise Whistles Migrant and
Contract Worker Policy to
include further detail on ethical
recruitment, remediation, and
guidance for implementation
across high risk regions and
business operations.

Recruitment agencies are often
in between the employer and
the worker, leaving the worker
at risk of deceptive or coercive
recruitment practices

Supported suppliers in
implementing the ‘employer
pays principle’ according
It is often difficult for migrant
to which no worker
workers to understand their
should pay for the cost of
rights and terms of employment recruitment.
Countries of highest risk for
Whistles are: Mauritius, China
and Turkey

Joined ETI Mauritius
Migrant Labour caucus
group
Lobbied Mauritian and
Bangladeshi governments
to address migrant
worker protection within
government-to-government
agreement.
Participated on the event
‘Migrant Workers: Driving
Collaborative Approaches
Towards Responsible
Recruitment’ in Mauritius,
bringing together key
stakeholders to discuss
challenges in managing
labour migration, and agree
on a common framework
for improving worker
protection in

Refugee Labour

Refugees are particularly
vulnerable to exploitation and
trafficking, as well as forced
labour and debt bondage
Often they don’t have access
to legal aid or support on the
ground, making them more
vulnerable to exploitation
We identified our main risk in
Turkey

Participated in ETI working
group on Business and
Human Rights and ETI
Turkey Platform Steering
Group, to develop a robust
framework on exploitation
and discrimination
of refugees in Turkey,
looking at issues such as
purchasing practices, social
dialogue and business and
human rights

Continue to lobby the
Bangladeshi and Mauritian
governments regarding a fair
migration corridor between the
two countries.
Identify and collaborate with
specialist NGOs to further our
migrant labour programme
Continue engagement with ETI
Mauritius Working Group to
deliver roadmap of activities
agreed at multi-stakeholder
event.

Continue to participate in ETI
Turkey Working groups
Continue to support suppliers
to provide decent employment
opportunities for Syrian
refugees.
Established links between
factories and local NGO’s to
facilitate the recruitment of
Syrian workers into our supply
chain.
Identify and collaborate with
specialist NGO to further our
Turkey country programme and
provide awareness training to
our suppliers

Child Labour and Young
Workers

Children and Young Workers
are more vulnerable to
exploitation and contemporary
forms of modern slavery,
also due to lack of robust HR
practices to ensure their age

Added robustness to our
Child Labour and
Young Worker policy and
communicated this to all
our suppliers

Countries of risk identified:
Turkey and India

Continue to participate in ETI
Turkey Working groups
Identify and collaborate with
specialist NGO to further our
Turkey country programme and
provide awareness training to
our suppliers
Conduct further risk
assessment of our supply chain
to understand where hot spots
for child labour exist and the
type of unit
Build our regional capacity in
high risk countries, including
India and China.
Build local NGO partnerships
in other high risk countries in
order to address root causes
of child labour and deliver
remediation programme.

Contract and Agency
Workers

There is insecurity in the status
of contract workers, which
leaves them more vulnerable to
exploitation

Developed our Migrant
Workers Employment
Policy and Implementation
Guidelines

Recruitment agencies create
an additional layer between
workers and the employer and
don’t guarantee a great deal of
transparency, as well as
potentially exposing workers to
exploitative practices

Developed a modern
slavery risk assessment for
our supply chain and our
distribution centre

Areas of risk identified are
Turkey, India and UK

Conducted contract,
agency and temporary
worker risk assessment
across our top ten sourcing
regions.

Further our risk assessment
of supply chain to identify
where other potential risks lie,
including home workers
Develop risk mitigation strategy
for contract and agency labour
in our supply chain.
Continue our collaboration
with leading NGO to extend
awareness to our supply chain

Collaborated with a leading
NGO to develop training
programmes on modern
slavery for our DC
Female Workers

Women are particularly
vulnerable to exploitation,
human trafficking and bonded
labour
Areas of risk identified are all
our sourcing regions

Participated in a series
of ETI learning events
to further develop
understanding and share
practical examples of how
gender equality can be
integrated into an ethical
trade programme.
Started applying a gender
lens to human rights due
diligence by initiating a
gender mapping exercise of
our supply chain to identify
hotspots

Prioritise areas of focus,
stakeholder engagement
especially with suppliers,
workers, local representatives,
NGOs
Establishing the right
partnerships to support us with
this work to ensure women
workers’ voices are heard

Purchasing Practices

Purchasing practices can
prevent supplier compliance
with company codes of
conduct and put at risk the
lives and dignity of workers
in supply chains. While poor
purchasing practices have led
to many problems, including
child labour and employee
retrenchment, many of their
negative effects fall into four
categories:
Failure to pay wages and
benefits required by law and
buyers’ codes of conduct
Use of excessive overtime,
some of which may be forced
Unauthorized subcontracting
to unsafe facilities with poor
working conditions
Increase use of temporary
labour making employment
more precarious

Non-Stock Suppliers

Whistles recognises that it
has a responsibility, and an
opportunity, to embed ethical
purchasing practices to include
non-stock suppliers of goods
and services.

Voluntarily joined Better
Buying, a global initiative
that provides retailers,
brands, and suppliers
a cloud-based platform
to obtain data-driven
insights into purchasing
activities. Better Buying’s
transparency fosters
sustainable partnerships
and mutually beneficial
financial results and other
outcomes.

Setting up a purchasing
practices taskforce to take
forward the suggestions
and recommendations that
emerged from the workshop
Redrafting the Job Descriptions
and KPIs for buyers to ensure
that ethical trade commitments
are included in their
performance metrics
Reviewing our Terms and
Conditions to ensure they are
aligned with our values and
standards

Anonymous supplier
ratings of buyer purchasing
practices are aggregated,
scored, and made available Exploring developing a Buyers
to the participating retailers, code of conduct to match the
brands, and suppliers with
suppliers code of conduct.
the goal of accelerating
change and industry-wide
improvements across
supply chains.
Benefited from the Better
Buying Responsible
Purchasing Workshop. The
objective of the workshop
was to raise awareness
on the link between
purchasing practices
and labour standards in
our supply chain and to
develop a strategy and
action plan.

We are mapping and
conducting a risk
assessment of our top
suppliers of goods and
services, to include freight
handling, distribution,
order fulfilment and returns
processing.

We will prioritise the highest
risk suppliers according to
spend, industry, geography
and known ethical risks and
send them a self-assessment
questionnaire to help gather
further information on their
employment practices and
ethical standards.
We will develop a roadmap to
ensure that our highest risk
sites are monitored on a regular
basis

Training
The Modern Slavery Act has been an opportunity to embed a greater understanding of human
rights within our product supply chain and to extend the awareness of the issue internally
across departments. All of our heads of departments are continuously briefed, and engage in
regular discussions on human rights and modern slavery through our Modern Slavery working
group. We brought on board our distribution centre to be part of the wider discussion.
We have developed a comprehensive training programme for Buying and Merchandising
designed to improve our purchasing practices. The training covered cost prices, models and
negotiation, production lead times and manufacturing processes, forecasting process, and
ethical and sustainable policies. We will also be developing a programme of factory visits for
all Buyers and Merchandisers to enable them to better understand production processes.
As part of our own operation induction and supplier on boarding process, we are developing
a digital e-learning that solely focuses on the topic of modern slavery: how to understand its
concepts, risks and legislation, identify any indicators or warning signals in supply chains and
own operations.
Next Steps
We commit to collaborate further with industry peers, NGOs, trade unions and through our
multi-stakeholder dialogue to address issues that are at the root cause of contemporary
slavery and human rights breeches. Moving forward we will extend the breadth and depth
of our approach to include non-stock suppliers and third party brands, and risk assessment
of other sourcing regions. Our aim is to further strengthen and promote our core values of
fairness, integrity, transparency and collaboration, and as such we will be updating this
statement annually.
Whistles Modern Slavery Statement was prepared by Whistles Modern Slavery Working Group
and approved by Whistles Board of Directors on 28th March 2019.

Helen Williamson Managing Director,
on behalf of the Board of Directors
©Whistles Limited 2019, All rights reserved.

