Whistles Modern Slavery Act Transparency Statement
Whistles Modern Slavery Act Transparency Statement for 2018. This statement is made
pursuant to Section 54 of the Modern Slavery Act 2015. It sets out the steps Whistles
has taken during the 2017/2018 financial year (the “Year”) to prevent slavery and human
trafficking from taking place in our supply chains or in any part of our business, and the
additional steps we plan to take in 2018.
Modern Slavery
About 150 years after most countries banned slavery millions of men, women and children
are still enslaved. Contemporary slavery, as defined in the 1956 UN supplementary
convention, takes many forms, including debt bondage, servitude, child slavery, forced
labour and human trafficking. Slavery thrives on every continent and in almost every country.
Forced labour, people trafficking, debt bondage and child labour are all forms of modern-day
slavery that affect the world’s most vulnerable people.
Whistles is committed to respecting, protecting and advocating for the human rights of all
the stakeholders who are involved in our own operations. As such we accept that is our
responsibility to support transparency and integrity, to be proactive in resolving problems
and to collaborate with others to protect the human and labour rights of workers.
About Whistles
Our Business Organisation:
Whistles is a multi-channel fashion brand based in London, selling apparel, footwear and
accessories for the contemporary woman and man.
Whistles is based in the UK, with a head office in London and additonal customer services
team in Rochester. The Whistles distribution centre is located in Milton Keynes.
We operate in 11 territories across the globe through wholesale, concessions, solus sites,
franchise partners and online. We employ 716 people, with 694 employees in the UK and ROI
across our 43 stores and 66 concessions, 111 in Head Office and 22 in the USA.
Location

Number of employees

Head Office - London

111

Stores (across the UK)

382

Concessions (across the UK)

168

Stores – Ireland

33

Stores – US

22

Our product is manufactured across 18 countries. We have an active supply base of 128
manufacturing sites comprising 97 factories through 55 suppliers, 23 factories through agents,
and 8 factories through other brands that we sell in-store. Our top 5 sourcing countries are
China, Portugal, Turkey, India and Mauritius.

Our Supply Chain
Our supply chain is divided into two channels:
a. Products for re-sale online and in stores, including Whistles branded products
and other third party brands’ products.
b. Non stock items and services, including outsourced customer deliveries, logistics,
IT, cleaning, customer care and catering.
We design our own brand’s products in our head office in London which are manufactured
by third party factories.
The sourcing department (comprised of Technical, Buying, Merchandising and Design)
manages the Whistles brand supply chain. The CSR and Sustainability Executive sits within
this department to ensure that product and raw material suppliers are selected based on
ethical and sustainable credentials together with commercial criteria.
Whistles non-stock products and services are managed by our Procurement Team, supported
by the CSR and Sustainability Executive, as well as the Legal team.
Whistles has an established Modern Slavery Working Group, set up to drive the modern slavery
agenda forward across all departments, looking at both supply chain channels.The modern
slavery working group carries out a risk assessment across our manufacturers,
non-stock suppliers, and Whistles direct employers.
Whistles supply chain is defined as follows:

Tier

Definition

Example

Status

1

Main Production Sites

Factory that cuts, makes and trims
Whistles products and ships to Whistles

Fully mapped

2

Primary Process
Subcontractors

Provider of one or more processes
e.g. stitching, cutting, packing,
QC and shipping to Whistles

Fully mapped

3

Secondary Process
Subcontractors

Provider of one or more processes
e.g. stitching, cutting, packing,
QC and shipping to Whistles

Partially mapped

4

Fabric and Components

Fabric mills, tanneries, hardwear
and trims

Partially mapped

5

Raw Materials

Textile fibres, natural and synthetic
materials

Not mapped

Our Policies
As part of our ever evolving ethical trading strategy based on the UN Guiding Principles on
Business and Human Rights (UNGPs) and the ETI Human Rights Due Diligence Framework,
we have developed our operational policies with the view of respecting, protecting and
remedying the human and labour rights of all that work on our behalf.
Whistles core policies relating to our commitment to adopting the UNGPs, to benefit all those
who work on behalf of Whistles are our Supplier Code of Conduct, the Migrant Workers
Employment Policy and Implementation Guidelines and the Young Worker and Child Labour
Policy.
Our Supplier Code of Conduct (“Code of Conduct”) is aligned with the Ethical Trading
Initiative (“ETI”) base code, with elements of the SAI SA1000 Standard:2014. It outlines
the minimum social and environmental standards we expect each factory to meet and our
expectations regarding the conditions in which our products should be manufactured.
Our Migrant Workers Employment Policy and Implementation Guidelines set out the supplier
requirement to protect, respect and remedy the rights and welfare of migrant and contract
workers, some of the most vulnerable to exploitation and modern slavery. Within this policy,
Whistles endorses the Employer Pays Principle, which reflects the Dhaka Principles for
Migration with Dignity.
Our Young Worker and Child Labour Policy prohibits the recruitment of child workers
in our supply chains and outlines remediation guidelines.
Finally other policies that are also related to the prevention of modern slavery are our
Anti Bribery Policy, Whistleblowing Policy, Equal Opportunity Policy and our Compliance
Handbook.
Due Diligence
Our Governance
The Managing Director and Whistles Board of Directors are responsible for ensuring Whistles
meets its human rights responsibilities. They are supported by the CSR and Sustainability
Executive and the Sourcing team.
Our Risk Assessment and Management
Whistles has identified the key elements that pose a risk of modern slavery in our supply
chain. As such we are conducting analysis of areas of our business where there is migrant
labour, high presence of refugees, young workers and a risk of the use of child labour,
contract and temporary workers, women workers, outsourced recruitment agencies.
We recognise that certain countries within our own operations may have one or more of these
modern slavery risks and as such we have divided them into three different categories of
high, medium and low risk and allocated appropriate priorities. This differentiation was based
upon assessing causes and contribution, direct and indirect impacts as well as level and
influence.

Our priority focus is currently on product manufacture. As such we have developed specific
policies and tools which allow us to investigate further where issues arise.
As part of our risk assessment and management, we partner with specialists on the ground
to further investigations with our suppliers or to raise awareness of potential risks. At the
same time Whistles values its partnerships with key NGOs, suppliers, other brands and multi
stakeholder initiatives, working together on pre-competitive ground to find a common solution
to salient issues.
Mapping our supply chain is an essential piece of work in managing and mitigating risks.
In 2016 we started the mapping of our supply chain, which allowed us to gain visibility of all
our tier 1 suppliers. Although we acknowledge that it is in the nature of supply chains to be
continuously evolving, we are working towards establishing long lasting relationships with our
existing suppliers and the aim for 2018 is to focus on mapping our supply base beyond Tier 1.
Actions taken
During our due diligence process we have identified key modern slavery risks where we
directed our attention.

Modern Slavery Risk

Definition of Issue

Steps Taken

Whistles Commitment

Migrant Labour

Migrant workers paying
recruitment fees might be
trapped in bonded labour and
be subjected to substandard
employment terms

Developed our Migrant
Workers Employment
Policy and Implementation
Guidelines

Further our commitment to
map and carry out a risk
assessment of migrant labour
across our supply chain

Conducted an extensive
impact assessment of our
Mauritian factory

Identify and collaborate with
specialist NGOs to further our
migrant labour programme

Joined ETI Mauritius
Migrant Labour caucus
group

Continue collaborating with ETI
members on migrant labour
issues

Collaborated with ETI to
develop a robust framework
on exploitation and
discrimination of refugees
in Turkey, looking at
issues such as purchasing
practices, social dialogue
and business and human
rights

Continue to participate in ETI
Turkey Working groups

Recruitment agencies are often
in between the employer and
the worker, leaving the worker
at risk of deceptive or coercive
recruitment practices

It is often difficult for migrant
workers to understand their
Participated on the event
rights and terms of employment ‘Migrant Workers: Driving
Collaborative Approaches
Countries of highest risk for
Towards Responsible
Whistles are: Mauritius, China
Recruitment’ in Mauritius,
and Turkey
bringing together key
stakeholders to discuss
challenges in managing
labour migration, and agree
on a common framework
for improving worker
protection in Mauritius and
beyond.
Refugee Labour

Refugees are particularly
vulnerable to exploitation and
trafficking, as well as forced
labour and debt bondage
Often they don’t have access
to legal aid or support on the
ground, making them more
vulnerable to exploitation
We identified our main risk
in Turkey

Identify and collaborate with
specialist NGO to further our
Turkey country programme and
provide awareness training to
our suppliers

Child Labour and Young
Workers

Children and Young Workers
are more vulnerable to
exploitation and contemporary
forms of modern slavery,
also due to lack of robust HR
practices to ensure their age

Added robustness to
our Child Labour and
Young Worker policy and
communicated this to all
our suppliers

Countries of risk identified:
Turkey and India

Contract and Agency
Workers

Continue to participate in ETI
Turkey Working groups
Identify and collaborate with
specialist NGO to further our
Turkey country programme and
provide awareness training to
our suppliers
Conduct further risk
assessment of our supply chain
to understand where hot spots
for child labour exist and the
type of unit

There is insecurity in the status
of contract workers, which
leaves them more vulnerable to
exploitation

Developed our Migrant
Workers Employment
Policy and Implementation
Guidelines

Further our risk assessment
of supply chain to identify
where other potential risks lie,
including home workers

Recruitment agencies create
an additional layer between
workers and the employer and
don’t guarantee a great deal
of transparency, as well as
potentially exposing workers to
exploitative practices

Developed a modern
slavery risk assessment for
our supply chain and our
distribution centre

Continue our collaboration
with leading NGO to extend
awareness to our supply chain

Areas of risk identified are
Turkey, India and UK

Collaborated with a leading
NGO to develop training
programmes on modern
slavery for our DC

Training
The Modern Slavery Act has been an opportunity to embed a greater understanding of human
rights within our product supply chain and to extend the awareness of the issue internally
across departments. All of our heads of departments have been briefed, and engage in regular
discussions on human rights and modern slavery through our Modern Slavery working group.
We brought on board our distribution centre to be part of the wider discussion.
Next Steps
We commit to collaborate further with industry peers, NGOs, trade union and through our
multi-stakeholder dialogue to address issues that are at the root cause of contemporary
slavery and human rights breeches. Moving forward we will extend the breadth and depth
of our approach to include non-stock suppliers and risk assessment of other sourcing
regions. Our aim is to further strengthen and promote our core values of fairness, integrity,
transparency and collaboration, and as such we will be updating this statement annually.
Whistles Modern Slavery Statement was prepared by Whistles Modern Slavery Working Group
and approved by Whistles Board of Directors on 28th March 2018.

Justin Hampshire on behalf of the Board of Directors
Managing Director

