Slavery & Human
Trafficking Statement
Seasalt is a clothing and lifestyle brand and multi-channel retailer based in Cornwall in the UK. Seasalt has 46
own brand stores, nearly 500 wholesale customers across the UK and Europe as well as an established online
presence.
The business’ head office is based in Falmouth, Cornwall and comprises creative teams who design and
develop the products, buying and merchandising, marketing and communications, finance, customer services,
property, organisational and development teams , as well as a central distribution centre which is located in
Redruth, Cornwall. Seasalt manufactures and imports its products from its supply chains that are located in the
following countries: India, Sri Lanka, China, Vietnam, Portugal, Turkey, Bulgaria and the UK.
Seasalt values its supply chain and understand we are only as good as the partners we have producing our
products. Seasalt is committed to working in partnership with its supply chain and to resolving issues found
within it together.
Our policies on slavery and human trafficking
To gain a view of the Seasalt supply chain, Seasalt requires all of its suppliers as part of their contract with us to
agree to our ethical standards. This policy embraces the Ethical Trading Initiative (ETI) Base Code and covers
areas such as the denial of freedom of association and forced labour, and clearly defines that forced labour
and freedom of association are unacceptable to Seasalt.
Due diligence
To ensure compliance with our ethical standards we ask that in addition to a signed contract and ethical
standards commitment statement, that all of our suppliers join Sedex, the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange.
Sedex is a not for profit membership organisation dedicated to driving improvements in responsible and ethical
business practices in global supply chains. Our suppliers are also required to complete self-assessment ethical
workbooks on a regular basis and to share copies of any external independent audits and their own policies
and procedures in regards to freedom of association and forced labour. Sedex work with many brands and
high street retailers, so are able to support and collate and advise us and our suppliers on all of the information
they receive to provide a global view on the ethical challenges faced in global manufacture.
Our management team work to ensure that all of our supply partners are up to date with completion of selfassessments, membership of Sedex and are committed to continuous improvement.
(continued)

Our process for this is as follows:
Self-Assessment: We collect information within the Sedex Self-Assessment Questionnaire that could be
indicators of management systems gaps or forced or bonded labour (such as holding of identity 		
documents, wage deductions made, etc). New questions have been added to name labour providers
used by suppliers. These issues can then be addressed further, often via a third party audit.
1.

2.

Risk Assessment: Sedex works with global risks analytics experts, Maplecroft, who reference hundreds
of indices - from human rights violations to political risk factors to flag country and industry risk factors.
This is combined with answers from the Sedex Self-Assessment Questionnaire which highlights 		
management systems risk indicators for human trafficking and forced or bonded labor.

3.

Audit: Sedex has created SMETA (Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit) – a free, publicly available 4
pillar audit methodology in ethical trade auditing, benefitting companies and their suppliers. Sedex’s
SMETA audit system is typical and very widely used.

4.

Reporting tools: The Sedex platform enables members to report on trends across the supply chain and
look for possible self-assessment or audit non-compliance indicators of forced or bonded labor that
might seem innocuous on their own.

The self-assessment results and any other findings feed directly into the Seasalt supplier strategy. This forms the
framework for the business strategy each season and is key to ensuring we make the best product in the most
responsible way possible.
In addition to the contractual requirements and Sedex, Seasalt team members regularly visit our suppliers
to review and audit their factories, working conditions and employees directly. Seasalt team members are
provided with appropriate training internally to ensure they are able to address issues when with the suppliers.
Seasalt recognises that the issue of human trafficking is a global issue and often difficult to detect. To ensure
that we have the most honest and clear view of our supply chain we acknowledge that our relationships,
commitment and open communication with our supply chain are critical to ensure that should any issues be
found they are resolved jointly to eliminate risk to all parties involved in the manufacture of Seasalt product.

Signed by:								
Date: 24th September 2017					

Position: Company Director
Review Date: 25th September 2018

