 

HUGO BOS 8

MODERN SLAVERY AND HUMAN TRAFFICKING STATEMENT
FOR FINANCIAL YEAR 2017
HUGO BOSS

Il. General Statement

As a conscientious and responsible global company, HUGO BOSS AG, including its
subsidiaries, rejects all kinds of modern slavery and human trafficking.

To comply with the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015, HUGO BOSS made this statement
pursuant to Section 54 of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and shows in a transparent way the
steps HUGO BOSS has taken to ensure that modern slavery and/or human trafficking is not
taking place in any part of our business or in our supply chain.

This statement is valid for the financial year 2017.

Il. Our organisation, our business, our supply chain

Our organisation

HUGO BOSS is one of the leading companies in the premium and luxury segments of the
apparel market. Headquartered in Metzingen (Germany), the Company employs over
13,700 employees who generated annual sales of EUR 2.8 billion in the business year
2015. Apart from HUGO BOSS AG, the Group has a total of 56 consolidated subsidiaries
located in Europe, the Americas, and Asia/Pacific in 2015. All subsidiaries are themselves
responsible for local business activities. 34 subsidiaries are organized within this framework
as distribution companies.

Our business

The HUGO BOSS Group focuses on developing and marketing premium fashion and
accessories for men and women. HUGO BOSS reaches out to varied and clearly
differentiated target groups through the core brand BOSS, the brand HUGO, and the brand
lines BOSS Green and BOSS Orange. These brands present a comprehensive product
portfolio with a range spanning classic to modern apparel, elegant evening clothing and
sportswear, shoes, leather accessories, and product groups marketed under license -
including fragrances, eyewear, watches, children?s fashion, textiles for the home, and
instrument for writing.

Our supply chain

The textile supply chain is typically defined by complex processes which largely take place
outside the confines of the Company. HUGO BOSS works together with a stable network of
experienced and specialized suppliers in order to guarantee excellent processing quality
and optimum availability of its products. In 2015, the HUGO BOSS Group was in an active
supply relationship with 257 partners in the field of contract manufacturing and
merchandise.

 

This statement applies to HUGO BOSS AG and HUGO BOSS UK Limited.

HUGO BOSS Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement Financial Year 2017 2/4
HUGO BOSS

Ill. Policies concerning to slavery and human trafficking

HUGO BOSS has implemented a Code of Conduct and a number of internal policies to
ensure that we are conducting business in an ethical and transparent manner. These
include:

1. HUGO BOSS Code of Conduct

The HUGO BOSS Code of Conduct is a binding set of rules which assist when dealing
with the challenges, both ethical and legal, that arise in the course of day-to-day work.
Of course, our HUGO BOSS Code of Conduct prohibits any kind of forced labor.

2. HUGO BOSS Social Compliance Policy

This policy sets out our working conditions and our compliance with internationally
recognized minimum social and labor standards in relation to our own employees and
those of our suppliers. This includes our rejection of all forms of forced labor, including
slavery and human trafficking.

3. HUGO BOSS Social Standards

The HUGO BOSS Social Standards are part of the practical implementation of the
HUGO BOSS Social Compliance Policy. They are based on the Core Conventions of the
International Labor Organization (ILO) as well as the United Nations Universal
Declaration of Human Rights. Our suppliers are obliged to comply with the HUGO
BOSS Social Standards and have to inform their subcontractors and sub-suppliers
about these standards.

IV. Due Diligence Processes

Prior to the start of a business relationship every direct supplier is required to sign and
acknowledge the HUGO BOSS Social Standards which include provisions on the
prohibition of slavery and human trafficking. Also the HUGO BOSS General Terms and
Conditions obligate suppliers to comply with the HUGO BOSS Social Standards and ensure
compliance through their supply chain.

On a regular basis our direct suppliers are required to undergo compliance audits which
include checks for compliance with the prohibition of slavery and human trafficking.
Announced and unannounced audits are conducted by internal or external partners. In the
year 2015, HUGO BOSS conducted 271 Social Audits worldwide.

HUGO BOSS Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement Financial Year 2017 3/4
HUGO BOS 5

To protect all employees against slavery or human trafficking, HUGO BOSS implemented a
Confidential Helpline to announce potential cases. Employees of our suppliers can use this
Confidential Helpline, too. They will be informed during the audits by an information card.

If suppliers violate our HUGO BOSS Social Standards we issue an action plan, requesting
them to improve compliance immediately with our standards. The supplier's performance
will be reviewed in a follow up audit. If a supplier fails to make progress against the plan,
he may be subject to sanctions up to and including termination of the business
relationship.

V. Trainings
All our employees undergo annual Social Standards trainings. One part of our Social

Standard training is to recognize methods and ways of modern slavery and human
trafficking in our supply chain and to report these cases in an effective way.

Also our internal and external audit staff consist of experienced and well trained auditors.
VI. Approval for this statement

This statement was approved by the Board on 13 of January 2017 and signed on its behalf
by the Chief Executive Officer and additionally by the Managing Director of HUGO BOSS
UK Limited.

Ca 
Mark -

HUGO BOSS AG HUGO BOSS UK Limited

 

Chief Executive Officer Managing Director
13 January 2017 16 January 2017

HUGO BOSS Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement Financial Year 2017 4/4
