Levi Strauss & Co.
UK Modern Slavery Act Statement

Levi Strauss & Co. is committed to ensuring that slavery and human trafficking is not taking place in its
business or supply chains.
1.

Description of business structure, and locations where there is a risk of slavery and human
trafficking

For more than 160 years, Levi Strauss & Co. has worked to honor the pioneering spirit of hard work,
individuality and authenticity in how we make our products and how we run our company. We’ve
dedicated ourselves to elevating the dignity of the people who work to bring our clothing to market. And
we’ve invested our time, energy, heart and resources in improving the future of these communities.
In October 2005, we were the first apparel company to release the names and locations of all our active,
approved owned-and-operated, contract and licensee factories that manufacture and finish Levi’s®,
Dockers® and Signature by Levi Strauss™ products. We believe that making our factory list public fosters
collaboration with other brands and leads to sector-wide improvement in workplace conditions.

2.

Modern Slavery Policies and Supplier Contractual Requirements

Levi Strauss & Co. assesses the risk related to the apparel supply chain as a fundamental element of our
standard supplier and licensee engagement process. Levi Strauss & Co.’s commitment to responsible
business practices - embodied in our Global Sourcing and Operational Guidelines - guides our decisions
and behavior as a company everywhere we do business. Since becoming the first multinational to
establish such guidelines in 1991, Levi Strauss & Co. has used them to help improve the lives of workers
manufacturing our products, make responsible sourcing decisions and protect our commercial interests.
The guidelines are a cornerstone of our business relationships with hundreds of contractors worldwide.
Levi Strauss & Co. develops Country Assessments, which are part of the Global Sourcing and Operating
Guidelines, to help assess any country-level issues that might present concern in light of the ethical
principles we have set for ourselves. The assessments assist Levi Strauss & Co. in understanding political
and socioeconomic risks and opportunities associated with conducting business in specific countries,
including understanding the risk of modern slavery, human trafficking and child labor. The Global
Sourcing and Operating Guidelines outline assessments to be conducted to identify breaches of: health
and safety; human rights; legal standards; and political and social standards. They explicitly prohibit the
use of forced, prison, or child labour. Levi Strauss and Co. will update the Guidelines to include specific
guidance on assessing modern slavery and human trafficking risks.
In addition to our Global Sourcing and Operating Guidelines, our Terms of Engagement (TOE) specify the
requirements by which all of our suppliers and licensees must abide — including ethical standards, legal
requirements, environmental requirements and community involvement. Our TOE also set out expected
employment standards, and specifically addresses issues of child labour, forced labor, migrant workers
and health and safety.
Our Sustainability Guidebook includes requirements aimed at protecting migrant workers from potential
violations of their rights. The requirements cover the areas of:

•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Recruitment
Employment contracts
Remuneration and benefits
Worker communications
Accommodations and food
Social activities and religious practices
Repatriation

All Levi Strauss & Co. suppliers are required to adhere to local law and the requirements contained in
Levi Strauss & Co.’s Sustainability Guidebook - whichever is stricter.
Levi Strauss & Co.’s purchasing agreements require all suppliers to comply with applicable laws within
the country of business, as well as our Global Sourcing and Operating Guidelines and our Terms of
Engagement regarding forced and prison labor.
3.

Steps Taken to Assess and Manage Risk

We conduct assessments of our suppliers based on the conditions outlined in our TOE. These
assessments are based on standards found in our Sustainability Guidebook, which all our suppliers
receive. These assessments involve on-site and off-site discussions with workers, management
interviews, review of factory records (such as timecards and payroll) and health and environmental
safety inspections. Each assessment identifies areas for improvement and a detailed corrective action
plan, including actions, responsible parties and timelines. Regular follow-up visits are also conducted to
ensure suppliers are completing their corrective action plans on a timely basis. We conduct both
announced and unannounced assessments.
Where a business partner or supplier fails to meet our standards, or comply with any of our TOE, they
are given a short period to correct the problem. If, on our next inspection, certain cases of noncompliance have not been resolved within a timely manner, Levi Strauss & Co. has rights, where
appropriate, to terminate the business relationship.
Levi Strauss & Co. maintains and enforces internal accountability procedures for employees and
contractors regarding company standards in forced labor and human trafficking. While these
accountability procedures are targeted at forced and child labour, amongst others, these will be
amended to include reference to slavery and human trafficking. In the case of non-compliance, Levi
Strauss & Co. reserves the right to examine the specific situation and develop a best possible strategy
for resolution.

4.

Due Diligence in the Business and Supply chains

We employ a full-time staff located around the world to oversee compliance, and advise on and monitor
suppliers’ sustainability programs. To supplement our own monitoring efforts, we use third-party
monitors to conduct regular assessments of every factory, key fabric mills and our product licensee
suppliers. All third-party monitors understand the scope of our labor, environment, health and safety
standards and know the local languages, laws, culture and business context of each country in which
they operate. All third-party monitors must be approved by Levi Strauss & Co. Approximately 80

individual third-party monitors are approved to conduct TOE assessments in factories. In accordance
with our supplier arrangements, these monitors apply the standards of either the local law, or our
Sustainability Guidebook - whichever are stricter.
5. Training and Programmes
We have learned that monitoring our suppliers for compliance with our TOE is only one mechanism for
improving working conditions. Levi Strauss & Co. goes beyond compliance to invest in programs that
focus on improving the lives of the workers who make our products. Through our Worker Well-being
initiative, we are collaborating with our suppliers and local service providers to implement programs in
countries around the world. Worker well-being is a new approach to supply chain engagement that
looks beyond the factory walls to improve the lives of the workers who make our products by
supporting their financial empowerment, health and family well-being and equality and acceptance.
We actively support the International Labor Organization’s Better Work program , which is the leading
global organization focused on protecting human rights and improving working conditions in the apparel
industry. ILO Better Work makes targeted investments in our manufacturing suppliers’ workers, training
apparel workers and factory management on their rights and responsibilities in the workplace.
Currently, Levi Strauss & Co. participates in ILO Better Work in Cambodia, Haiti, Nicaragua and Vietnam.
Levi Strauss & Co. conducts internal training on the Worldwide Code of Business Conduct annually to
ensure we provide our employees with a clear set of standards and guidance for conducting our
business with integrity and the highest degree of compliance with the law. Additionally, Levi Strauss &
Co. conducts internal training of our supply chain management to ensure management are
knowledgeable and aware of the issues and concerns surrounding the supply chain, including human
trafficking and slavery, with a particular focus on mitigating risks.
This statement is made pursuant to section 54(1) of the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015 and constitutes our
Group's slavery and human trafficking statement for the financial year ending 30 November 2016.

Levi Strauss (UK) Limited:

Levi Strauss & Co.

Richard Hurren

Liz O’Neil

Title: Director

Title: SVP, Chief Supply Chain Officer

Date: May 8, 2017

Date: May 8, 2017

