I C G RO UP T R A N S PA R E N C Y I N
S U P P LY C H A I N S S T A T E M E N T 2 0 17

TRANSPARENCY IN
SUPPLY CHAINS STATEMENT
Following statement is in accordance with the UK Modern Slavery Act
In IC Group we recognize that we are part of an industry with many Corporate Responsibility (CR) challenges in terms of complex
supply chains. Our overall approach is to take these challenges seriously and make sure that we are not a barrier to sustainable
development. However, we would like to take it one step further and, where possible, work towards turning these challenges
into opportunities where we can use our inherent creativity and strong innovation skills to make a difference and contribute to
sustainable development.

1. UN Global Compact and Human Rights Policy

IC Group’s CR efforts are grounded in the UN Global Compact’s 10 principles which are based on internationally adopted
declarations and conventions on human rights, labour rights, environmental protection and anti-corruption. We use these
principles and the United Nations Guiding Principles as the overall framework to guide our CR policies and implementation
processes
For a detailed description of our CR policies and processes, please visit www.icgroup.net/responsibility.
HUMAN RIGHTS POLICY

Our responsibility to support and respect human rights
IC Group supports and respects the Universal Declaration of Human Rights which is outlined in the UN Global Compact
principles 1-6. We do this by continuously identifying and assessing potential adverse human rights impacts both internally
in IC Group as well as in cooperation with our suppliers. Furthermore, we regularly assess opportunities for using our core
competences to make a positive contribution to the realisation of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
Our work with human rights also includes our efforts to create a conducive working environment for our employees, which
provides the opportunity to develop and achieve a good work life balance.

We use education both externally with our suppliers and internally as a mean to develop the capacity and understanding of the
importance and value of working with human rights.

2. BSCI and DIEH

Since joining BSCI in 2007, BSCI forms the foundation of IC Group’s initiatives on responsible supply chain management. We
have adopted BSCI’s common Code-of-Conduct, and compliance is a pre-requisite in our onboarding processes.
A big part of BSCI’s work and budget is capacity building and empowering of suppliers and members. BSCI’s emphasis on
capacity building is very much in sync with our approach and belief that it is through these activities that we will see real progress
with our suppliers.
As part of our efforts to promote decent working conditions, IC Group co-founded the organization the Danish Ethical Trading
Initiative (DIEH) in February 2008. DIEH is a multi-stakeholder initiative which functions as a resource centre for the member
organizations and seeks to promote ethical trade and responsible supply chain management among Danish companies. DIEH’s
overall aim is to promote international trade that promotes human rights and working conditions, and contributes to sustainable
development in developing countries and emerging economies.
For further information about DIEH, please visit www.dieh.dk.

2

IC GROUP • TRANSPARENCY IN SUPPLY CHAINS STATEMENTS 2017

3. Supplier relationships
We pledge to work pro-actively internally as well as externally with our suppliers to promote compliance with UN Global Compact’s
ten principles. Unfortunately, we will never be able to give a 100% guarantee of compliance, but we strive to make a positive
difference and set up due diligence processes to avoid non-compliance issues. Furthermore, we use our Compliance Hotline to
enable access to remediation in cases of non-compliance.
In general, we see our suppliers as critical partners in these efforts. Consequently, using a partnership approach to promote
responsible supply chain management is a main focus area. Furthermore, we have developed a supplier scorecard which in
addition to parameters like quality, price and delivery also includes social CR parameters. This is used as a tool to further promote
dialogue with our suppliers and emphasize our focus on CR performance as an important aspect of being an IC Group supplier.
IC Group is an active member of the Sustainable Apparel Coalition and has co-signed the Social Labour Convergence. Our
experts are part of the work group developing the framework. We believe that creating one common audit protocol for the
entire footwear/apparel supply chain will be a huge step towards supply chain transparency.
For more information: http://apparelcoalition.org/worlds-leading-apparel-brands-combine-forces-to-transform-globallabor-conditions1

Key actions in the past ﬁnancial year 2016/17
Our human rights due diligence processes singled out the following three key focus areas on top of our overall supply chain work
within UNGC and BSCI:
1.

BSCI: renewed focus on Turkey and Romania.
In 2016/17, 81% of our production from risk countries originated from suppliers audited by BSCI or
equivalent. We have worked hard together with our suppliers to get them enrolled in audits. The
decision to add Romania and renew the focus on Turkey was heavily inﬂuenced by the current Syrian
refugee crisis which our due diligence processes ﬂagged.

2.

Myanmar
One of our brands wished to enter Myanmar together with two suppliers, who have built new production
facilities in Myanmar. We conducted a thorough due diligence process, including our own assessment
of the suppliers in Myanmar, BSCI audits, discussions with BSR and Danish Human Rights, before
making the ﬁnal decision to place production in Myanmar. We continue to be alert to the development
in Myanmar and our suppliers’ compliance. Our suppliers are highly specialized with skilled staff, and
the wages are well above minimum wages.

3.

Challenges within the cotton supply chain
We continue to be aware of potential workers’ rights violations in the cotton supply chains, not
limited to Uzbekistan, and we have been members of the Better Cotton Initiative since 2013. We have
formulated a policy on Uzbek Cotton, shared it with our suppliers and incorporated it in our Standard
Operations Procedures. Our Uzbek Cotton Policy is available at: http://www.icgroup.net/responsibility/
people/uzbek-cotton-policy.

Please ﬁnd a link to our annual CR report, which is also uploaded to UNGC: http://www.icgroup.net/responsibility/
corporate-responsibility-report/.

Copenhagen 31 August 2017
IC Group A/S

Henrik Heideby

Chairman of the Board of Directors

TRANSPARENCY IN SUPPLY CHAINS STATEMENTS 2017 • IC GROUP

3

