 AB

Nilorngruppen Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement

Company profile

Nilorngruppen is a global company with expertise in adding value to brands in the world of labels,
packaging and accessories. We offer complete, creative and tailor-made concepts in the areas of
branding, design, product development and logistic solutions. Our offices and manufacturing bases
are in: Sweden, Denmark, Belgium, Switzerland, USA, Germany, Italy, United Kingdom, Portugal,
Turkey, Hong Kong, China, india, Bangladesh and Pakistan. The Group Head Office is located in Boras
Sweden and the parent company Nilorngruppen is listed on Stockholm Stock Exchange, First North
Premier. Our practices are governed both at a global and local level. Nilorngruppen core values
are the practices our employees should be guided by daily, in all work situations. The values
are Passion, Respect, Common Sense, Execute, Innovation, Teamwork and Responsibility.

Our responsibility

Nilorngruppen is committed to complying with laws and regulations and acting in accordance with
commonly accepted best practices. Among those are regulations on human trafficking and forced
labour, including but not limited to California Transparency in the Supply Chains Act of 2010 and the
UK Modern Slavery Act 2015. As a globally operating company we recognise our responsibility to
respect international standards and practices, such as those of United Nations (UN) Universal
Declaration of Human Rights and Fundamental Rights at Work by International Labour Organisation
(ILO).

Human Trafficking and Modern Slavery

Supporting or participating in human trafficking and forced labour practices are clearly prohibited by
the principles of Nilorngruppen Supplier Code of Conduct. The requirements clearly define steps in
the recruitment process to ensure that we do not contribute to human trafficking or modern slavery.
The steps include but are not limited to proper verification of identity, prohibiting recruitment fees,
and clearly communicating the terms and conditions of employment. Nilorngruppen has zero
tolerance to slavery and human trafficking

Suppliers

Nilorngruppen seeks to do business with suppliers who share similar values and respect human
rights. We require our suppliers to take actions that are consistent with the Nilorngruppen Supplier
Code of Conduct. Suppliers, including labour agencies and recruiters, are required to have processes
in place to ensure that they do not take part in human trafficking or modern slavery.

The process to evaluate and address specific risks of human trafficking and slavery on our product
supply chain in more detail is currently being developed to have the same procedures in all sourcing
countries. Evaluation will be part of the supplier assessment and repeated at regular intervals. While
Nilorngruppen uses its contractual right to conduct on-site audits of selected suppliers, those on-site
audits do not currently include specific assessment of human trafficking and modern slavery. It is
part of the third-party audits that are being performed.

SWEDEN BANGLADESH BELGIUM CHINA DENMARK ENGLAND GERMANY HONGKONG INDIA ITALY PAKISTAN PORTUGAL SWITZERLAND TURKEY USA

Nil?rngruppen AB Telephone E-mail Website
Wieslanders vag 3 +46 33 700 88 88 info@nilorn.com 
Box 499

501 13 Boras
SWEDEN
NILORNGRUPPEN AB

The Supplier Code of Conduct is a part of the contract with key suppliers, this code is currently being
updated. Currently, any business relationship with a supplier that fails to perform according to the
requirements stated in Nilorngruppen Code of Conduct would be re-evaluated. The relationship may
eventually be terminated if the supplier does not demonstrate sufficient efforts to improve.

Training

The management team is responsible for compliance within their respective departments and in
their supplier relationships and have been trained accordingly. All employees receive an induction
into the business where our policies, procedures and expectations are outlined. As a responsible
business, it is essential for employees to understand why respect for human rights is so important.
Training and awareness-raising are therefore central to embedding this approach. Throughout 2017,
we are considering how to provide this training to all employees regardless of location, online
training is preferable.

Reporting misconducts

Nilorngruppen employees are, under the terms of employment, expected to follow all applicable
laws and all Nilorngruppen policies, including the Nilorngruppen Code of Ethics and Business
Conduct. Employees who violate the Code or any employment policies are subject to disciplinary
action, up to and including dismissal. Employees are encouraged to report all violations of the Code
or other employment policies to their managers, an officer of the company or to the Human
Resources department. The registration can be done personally by phone, e-mail or an anonymous
letter.

Our effectiveness in combating slavery and human trafficking

Nilorngruppen uses the following key performance indicators to measure how effective we have
been to ensure that slavery and human trafficking is not taking place in any part of our business or
supply chains:

Supplier monitoring program including prohibition of the use of undeclared units.

We maintain a level of communication and personal contact with the next link in the supply chain
to ensure their understanding of, and compliance with, our expectations.

We regularly review supply chain policies, codes of conduct and our working practices to show
commitment.

Going forward

We will continue to address the risks and develop our work to prevent modern slavery and human
trafficking across the supply chain. We will report on Nilorngruppen?s progress in next year?s
statement.

This statement covers the financial year 2016 and has been approved by the Board of Directors.

   
 

 


ON me nae,
tm en
me eon

 

Claes af Wetterstedt
CEO and Member of the Board of Directors

SWEDEN BANGLADESH BELGIUM CHINA DENMARK ENGLAND GERMANY HONGKONG INDIA ITALY PAKISTAN PORTUGAL SWITZERLAND TURKEY USA

Nil?rngruppen AB Telephone E-mail Website
Wieslanders vag 3 +46 33 700 88 88 info@nilorn.com 
Box 499

501 13 Boras
SWEDEN
