PUMA.

MODERN SLAVERY AND HUMAN TRAFFICKING STATEMENT 2017

INTRODUCTION

This statement has been published in accordance with the Mo-
dern Slavery Act [2015] and sets out the steps that PUMA Group
[hereby referred ta as has taken during the financial year
2017 to prevent modern slavery and human trafficking in its
own business and in its supply chain.

STRUCTURE, BUSINESS AND SUPPLY CHAIN

PUMA is one of the world?s leading sports brands, designing, de-
veloping, selling and marketing footwear, apparel and accesso-
ries. For 70 years, PUMA has been producing the most innova-
tive praducts for the fastest athietes onthe planet. PUMA offers
performance and products in categories such as
Football, Running and Training, Golf, Motorsports and Basket-
bail. PUMA engages in exciting collaborations with renowned
designers to bring innovative and fast designs to the sports
world. The PUMA Group owns the brands PUMA and COBRA Golf
as well the subsidiary Dobotex. PUMA distributes its products in
more than 120 countries and employs more than 13,000 people
worldwide and is headquartered in Herzogenaurach, Germany.

SOCIAL, ECONOMIC AND ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY ISA
CORE VALUE FOR PUMA. AS A LONG-TERM SIGNATORY TO THE
UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT, WE HAVE LINKED OUR SUS-
TAINABILITY STRATEGY TQ THE UNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE
DEVELOPMENT GOALS. WE AIM TO BRING OUR TRADING
PRACTICES IN LINE WITH THE PRINCIPLES OF SUSTAINABLE DE-
VELQPMENT AND ENSURE THAT QUR PRODUCTS ARE MANUFAC-
TURED IN WORKPLACES, WHERE HUMAN RIGHTS ARE
RESPECTED.

We recognize the importance for transparency in our supply
chain and publish the list of our core component and material
suppliers [Tier 2] and aur core manufacturers [Tier 1). The list
can be found on the website under Sustainability/Supply
Chain. This PUMA global core factory list includes suppliers that
stand for 80% of the sourcing volume of our apparel, footwear,
and accessaries divisions. suppliers are located all
around the world. In 2017, out of the 124 factories, 117 were
located in Asia, 4 in Europe and 3 in America. Asia remains the
strangest sourcing region overall with China and Vietnam as our
main sourcing countries. The core factory list contains the
name, address and tier-level of each factory as well as infarma-
tion on the type of product being processed and the number of
employed workers.

Further information about PUMA, its organizational structure
and group relationships is availabie on the company?s website
under PUMA at a Glance and under Financial Reports (cf. 
Annual Report 2017).

POLICIES ON MODERN SLAVERY AND HUMAN
TRAFFICKING

PUMA is committed to ensure respect of the ILO Core Conven-
tians, the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights
and the ten principles of the United Nations Glabal Compact.
These standards are the foundation for labor-related
policies.

CODE OF ETHICS IS THE BASIC FRAMEWORK FOR THE BE-
HAVIOR OF ALL PUMA EMPLOYEES INCLUDING EMPLOYEES OF
JOINT VENTURES, CUSTOMERS AND SUPPLIERS.

The Code of Ethics is mandatory and extends to every individual
working for or on behalf of PUMA. It determines com-
mitment to ethical and responsible individual and carporate be-
havior and requires everyone to comply with legal requirements
at all times.

GUR COMMITMENT TO AVOID MODERN SLAVERY AND HUMAN
TRAFFICKING AND FORCED LABOR ALSO INTEGRATED IN PU-
CODE OF CONDUCT THAT, IN ADDITION TO THE CODE OF
ETHICS, ALL OUR VENDORS AND THEIR SUBCONTRACTORS ARE
REQUIRED TO FULLY RESPECT.

It forms an essential part of our purchasing contracts. Intro-
duced back in 1993, Code of Conduct sets a clear mi-
nimum standard for supply chain partners and is displayed in all
of directly contracted partner factories. It stipulates
very clearly:

DIGNITY AND RESPECT - Harassment, corporal! punishment and
physical, sexual, or verbal abuse is not tolerated
in the PUMA supply chain. Vendors ond their subcontractors
cannot use any form of forced labor including prison Iabar, in-
dentured labor or bonded Jabor.

Our compliance requirements covering responsible recruit-
ment, forced labor, bonded labor, child labor and human traffi-
cking are also detailed in PUMA Sustainability Hondbook - Social
Standards. This is distributed to all our vendors and their sub-
contractors and compliance is mandatary for them. The Hand-
book is updated regularly to integrate relevant Human Rights
subjects and set an approach to address and improve specific
challenges.

Allcommitments mentioned before are granted throughout the
supply chain, so that a supplier with whom PUMA has a direct
contractual relationship [Tier 1 supplier) in turn bears the res-
ponsibility for ensuring compliance across their own direct
Supply chain.
RISK ASSESSMENT AND DUE DILIGENCE
PROCESSES

For more than two decades, PUMA has actively promoted the
respect of Human Rights within its supply chain. All PUMA sup-
pliers [Tier 1) as well as all PUMA Core Suppliers [Tier 2] are
regularly assessed for compliance to our Code of Conduct. We
recognize the risk of modern slavery within the textile and
footwear industries. All farms of modern slavery, including Dut
not limited to forced labor, bonded labor, child labor and human
trafficking are Zero Tolerance Issues as stated in 
Sustainability Handbook - Social Standards.

NEW FACTORIES WITH ZERO TOLERANCE ISSUES WILL NOT BE
ADMITTED INTG SUPPLY CHAIN. FOR ACTIVE FACTORIES,
THE REMEDIATION OF TREATED WITH THE HIGHEST PRIO-
RITY. SHOULD FACTORIES FAIL TO REMEDIATE ANY IDENTIFIED
ZTis WITHIN AN AGREED TIMEFRAME, THE BUSINESS RELATI-
ONSHIP WITH THIS FACTORY WILL BE TERMINATED.

As part of our actions to identify and mitigate risks, we carry out
due diligence and assessments which include:

Suppliers? selection through a careful screening process to
engage only with business partners who share our cammit-
ment to uphold the highest labor standards.

Conducting regular announced and unannounced audits as
well as third-party assessments from the Fair Labor Asso
ciation to better understand local contexts and feve
rage opportunities.

- The identification of regional specific Human Rights risks
engaging in an active dialogue with local stakeholders in
cluding NGOs, unions and suppliers.

Joining industry initiatives for mapping and remediating
the most complex challenges.

WE RECOGNIZE THAT QUR MOST SALIENT RISKS REGARDING M0-
DERN SLAVERY AND HUMAN TRAFFICKING IN QUR SUPPLY CHAIN
ARE IN THE LOWER TIERS.

Based on arisk mitigation approach, our core Tier 2 suppliers,
who represent more than 80% of our business, have been in-
cluded in our compliance program. For the other non-core Tier
2 suppliers, we require our Tier 1 suppliers to pass down our
compliance requirements to their business partners.

In 2017, we conducted a Supply Chain Human Rights Risk As-
sessment together with the specialist consultancy firm twen-
tyfifty. The results show that PUMA is proactively embedding
responsible business conduct in its management processes as
well as collaborating with other peers and industry initiatives.
Mapping and assessing risks and impacts practices in the lower
Tiers of the supply chain are opportunities for improvement to
be better integrated at the strategic level.

The high-risk areas identified include the field of cotton farming
and cattle ranching as well as labor blind spots, for example an
ginneries and the lower Tiers of leather tanning as well as ma-
rine shipping. The results of the risk assessment were dis-
cussed with internal and external stakeholders in November

2017 during our annual stakeholder meeting ?Talks at Hang
Kong? and an action plan was setup to mitigate the potential
risks identified.

Examples of the actions agreed include evaluating the Human
Rights risk level for our core suppliers and mapping aut the
complete supply chain for the ten suppliers with the highest
risks. Those suppliers which have not been previously covered
by our audits will be evaluated with a self-assessment tool ta
identify their specific risks. We will empower our Tier 1 and Tier
2 suppliers to conduct this due diligence exercise on their own
supply chain. For cotton farming, we have a target to Source at
least 50% of our cotton via the Better Cotton Initiative by
2020. Our long-term goal is to cover the vast majority of the
cotton used in PUMA products by sustainadle cotton initiatives
like the BCI. In parallel, we work on improving the traceability of
the leather we use via the traceability system of the Leather
Working Group, where over 90% of our leather suppliers are
members. To mitigate the risk of marine shipping, we work with
top-class logistic Companies and ask them to frequently update
us on their awn Human Rights policies and performance.

Thanks to our work with industry peers, we have also identified
the high risk of Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking ta which
low-skilled migrant workers are exposed. We will update our
own policies to ensure that they adequately address respon-
sible recruitment practices, including for example, that no rec-
ruitment fees should be borne by workers.

EFFECTIVENESS

Embedding Human Rights across our operations and suppliers
is a part of 10FOR20 Sustainability Targets. All PUMA
employees who feel that ethical standards in business may
have been compromised can raise their voice. Various channels
are in place to report any suspicions and or observations re-
lated ta modern Slavery. In practice, all employees should ad-
cress their request regarding apparent failure to their line ma-
nager. They may also raise the matter with staff representa-
tives, the legal department, the internal audit department ar via
a toll-free external whistleblower hotline available worldwide.
The Ethics Committees make sure that no action is taken
against an employee who, in all good faith, reports a case of fai-
lure ta camply with an ethical principle of the Code of Ethics, as
a consequence of having reported the matter.

Our Code of Conduct applies to all our business partners in the
supply chain. Our sustainability team enforces our require-
ments by executing regular audits every year in all our core fac-
tories to ensure that where PUMA products are being produced,
these standards are met. PUMA has an own team of auditors,
who are located around the world. During those audits, we look
far indicators of farced labor as well as associated indicators of
risk - such as freedom of association.

IN 2017, TEN FACTORIES WERE NOT ADMITTED INTO OUR SUP-
PLIER BASE DUE TQ A FAILED AUDIT AND A FURTHER SEVEN FAC-
TORIES WERE DEACTIVATED FOR THE SAME REASON
Overall, our supply chain team identified four cases of zero to-
lerance issues in 2017. These cases were related ta the under-
payment of minimum wages. All factories were asked to imme-
diately remedy the issues in question. Two factories were con-
sequently removed from our supplier base and two factories
rectified the payments and therefore remained active PUMA
suppliers,

Since any audit or assessment can only analyze the compliance
situation at a given time, we use two other tools to manage and
track performance of our suppliers: PUMA Code of Conduct pos-
ters, including a worker hatline, and PUMA Supplier Social Key
Performance Indicators (KPIs).

The PUMA Code of Conduct posters include phone numbers and
email addresses of our supply chain team to offer complaint
channels for all employees of PUMA suppliers. In 2017, we
received in total of 81 worker complaints from our factories, but
none of them concerned modern slavery cases. As an
accredited member of the FLA, any third party can also file an
official third-party complaint with the FLA directly. No cases
concerning madern slavery or human trafficking in 
supply chain have ever been brought to the FLA complaint
channel.

To measure performance and progress within our supply chain,
we use the results of our annual Social KPI survey, We continue
to improve the methodology of data collection and analysis, but
have already been able ta identify some potential risk areas
such as Collective bargaining in some countries in South and
South-East Asia. Sacial and associated improvement pro-
grams help our suppliers to better monitor their own risk expo-
sure, Strengthening worker organization and collective bargai-
ning that will ultimately help mitigate risks in the workplace.

Beyond our assessments and checking procedures, we also
work to establish lasting partnerships with our suppliers as well
as core material and component manufacturers, and support
them through training skills and develapment programs and
sharing good practices.

To reach our goals, PUMA collaborates with other brands and
international organizations in initiatives to work jointly on im-
proving working conditions in our sourcing countries. One ex-
ample on how we address the risks, to which high-vulnerable
groups are exposed, is our commitment with the project led by
the FLA on Syrian Refugees working in the Turkish apparel in-
dustry. The FLA and the Ministry of Labor and Social Security in
Turkey are raising awareness on the risk of child labor for refu-
gees and provide guidance on the emplayment of young workers
[alder than 15 and younger than 18] to employers, The project
scope Covers cotton farming activities which is ane of 
high-risk areas.

TRAINING AND AWARENESS

In 2017, 99 of PUMA employees completed an annual e-lear-
ning Code of Ethics training. Available in nine languages, this
training sets out the ethical ground rules in place and presents

case studies and ethical dilemmas that help employees ask
themselves the right questions. It is updated annually and co-
vers all the major ethics principles upheld hy Code of
Ethics. Some of the topics covered include corruption, diversity
and respect for Human Rights.

At the supply chain level, we have conducted frequent supplier
round tables in all major sourcing regions for several years. Du-
ring these round tables, sustainability targets and cam-
pliance program are discussed with our suppliers, inciuding ma-
dern slavery and human trafficking issues whenever necessary.
Material and component suppliers are also invited to these
meetings. In 2017, these round tables covered 302 supplier fac-
tories. Furthermore, we are training our sourcing teams regu-
larly on our PUMA compliance program.

NEXT STEPS

PUMA will continue to implement the recommendations out-
lined in our Corporate and Supply Chain Risk Assessments. One
of the focus areas will be raising awareness on Modern Slavery
and Human Trafficking providing tailored training to our sup-
pliers and our own staff.

We will keep on improving and formalizing the ongoing risk ma-
nagement processes to better identify, prevent, mitigate and
account for risks within our supply chain. As part of it, we will
empower Tier 1 and Tier 2 suppliers to conduct due diligence on
their own operations and supply chains.

Furthermore, PUMA will maintaln its commitments at industry
level, enabling a common framework for improving migrant
workers protection through responsible recruitment practices.
We will as well update our own policies and handbooks to ensure
they specifically address the identified risks.

This statement was approved by the Managing Directors of
PUMA SE in June 2017 and signed on their behalf by the Chief
Executive Officer of PUMASE

Bjarn Gulden
Chief Executive Officer
PUMA SE
