STATEMENT

PUMA California Transparency in the Supply Chain Act Disclosure
Statement
In September 2010, the government of California approved a new law, which will require
retailers and manufacturers operating in the state to make public the steps they have
undertaken to eradicate slavery and human trafficking from their supply and distribution chain.
PUMA acknowledges the levels and types of risks related to each country where PUMA’s
materials and goods are sourced and produced. In line with the California Transparency in
Supply Chains Act (SB 657), PUMA recognizes the pervasiveness of practices that could be
construed as slavery and human trafficking and is committed to addressing the issues within
PUMA’s supply chain using best practice approaches where possible.
PUMA.Safe is the supplier social and environmental compliance program established over 10
years ago to ensure compliance to PUMA’s Code of Conduct. Our Code of Conduct covers issues
such as maximum working hours, basic wage, respect, equality and restriction of forced labour,
amongst others. The factory compliance monitoring system is the core operational activity of
PUMA.Safe, along with capacity building projects, regular consultation and outreach with
stakeholders and factories to improve compliance, particularly in our major production markets.
At present, the PUMA.Safe audit process is the primary mechanism to ensure that PUMA’s
social, health, safety and environmental standards are observed at our direct contract factories
as well as the contract factories of PUMA’s subsidiaries and licensees, as well as in a proportion
of known subcontractors. All official PUMA.Safe audits are announced, unless there is
information or justification provided in advance that warrants an unannounced visit to a factory.
During the audit, workers are interviewed and amongst other topics they are asked how they
obtained their job, if they had to pay any fees, if general wages & deductions against wages are
Page 1

fair and if they were given back their identification documents. Migrant workers’ working
permits,

whether foreign or domestic, are also reviewed.

If there are

employee

accommodations in the factory these are also checked and the working hours records are
thoroughly reviewed. All of these actions aim to verify that there is no human trafficking and
slave labor.
Furthermore, within our manufacturing agreements, every factory which manufactures PUMA
products is obligated to be audited by PUMA or a designated third party for compliance with all
PUMA standards and the relevant national and local laws – including those related to antislavery and human trafficking. Where such laws do not yet exist or are milder compared to
international standards, PUMA strives to engage with all relevant stakeholders to come up with
policies and actions to address the issue. Within these agreements contract factories are
required to disclose subcontractors as defined by PUMA and failure or negligence to provide
such information would be grounds for a variety of commercial penalties. PUMA conducts
regular annual mapping exercises to validate subcontractor information provided by contract
factories, and these are supplemented with engagements with stakeholders.
PUMA’s contract factories are also subjected to independent external monitoring by the Fair
Labor Association (FLA), which at present are all unannounced visits. The FLA is a is a
collaborative effort of socially responsible companies, colleges and universities, and civil society
organizations to improve working conditions in factories around the world. The FLA has
developed a Workplace Code of Conduct, based on International Labour Organization (ILO)
standards, and created a practical monitoring, remediation and verification process to achieve
those standards. The FLA is a brand accountability system that places the onus on companies to
voluntarily achieve the FLA’s labour standards in the factories manufacturing their products. The
main component of both the PUMA.Safe and FLA audits is the remediation of the areas of
failure. To achieve sustainable compliance, our factories are obliged to address not only the
immediate areas of failure but the root causes of the failures. Where such root causes go
beyond the factory walls PUMA encourages suppliers to engage with stakeholders that can help
address these root causes on their own or in partnership.

Page 2

PUMA also supports Better Work Programmes active in its major production markets. Better
Work, a partnership between the International Labour Organization and the International
Finance Corporation, brings together governments, employers, workers and international buyers
to improve compliance with labour standards. The Better Work programme is active in the
following countries: Cambodia (as ―Better Factories Cambodia), Haiti, Indonesia, Jordan,
Lesotho, Nicaragua and Vietnam. Better Work provides assessment, advisory and training
services to registered suppliers, whose participating buyers have access to assessment reports
and improvement updates. Assessments measure compliance with national labour law and core
international labour standards, including those relating to forced labour. In assessing forced
labour, Better Work looks at employer practices relating to recruitment (including the use of
employment agencies), document retention, freedom of movement, payment of wages, forced
overtime, threats or intimidation, termination, and prison labour, among others. When
necessary, Better Work staff work with suppliers to address practices that may contribute to
conditions of forced labour. In addition, each country programme produces public compliance
synthesis reports, which report aggregate non-compliance data—including data on forced
labour—from participating factories.
In the event that a case of human trafficking or slavery would be detected in PUMA’s supply
chain, the PUMA.Safe team together with the factory management would seek to eradicate the
practice and launch a fair remediation for the affected parties. Through its affiliation with PPR
Home, PUMA is strengthening its own internal awareness of social issues such as human
trafficking and slavery and the impact of our business operations on society, particularly those
operations that may seem removed from the supply chain.
Stakeholder engagement and partnership building at the local, regional and global levels in
order to identify and act on solutions to a variety of risks and issues in the supply chain is an
integral component of the PUMA.Safe program. PUMA strives to engage and work with local
actors in areas with known risk of human trafficking and slavery to support initiatives that
would mitigate and correct impacts in a systemic fashion. PUMA also works with its peers
locally, regionally and globally through initiatives like the Sustainable Apparel Coalition to ensure
environmental sustainability initiatives are aligned with mitigation of social risks.

Page 3

In accordance to the new law SB 657, PUMA is dedicated to expand its standards and take
measures to cover the necessary scope and beyond in efforts to eradicate slavery and human
trafficking in our immediate supply chain and eventually beyond. This includes strengthening
and making more explicit PUMA’s workplace standards and policies for contract factories in
accordance with best practices and more stringent international standards.
The new law, SB 657, will go into effect on January 1st, 2012.
revised original statement, 28 December 2011

PUMA
PUMA is one of the world’s leading Sportlifestyle companies that designs and develops footwear, apparel and accessories. It is
committed to working in ways that contribute to the world by supporting Creativity, SAFE Sustainability and Peace, and by staying
true to the principles of being Fair, Honest, Positive and Creative in decisions made and actions taken. PUMA starts in Sport and
ends in Fashion. Its Sport Performance and Lifestyle labels include categories such as Football, Running, Motorsports, Golf and
Sailing. Sport Fashion features collaborations with renowned designer labels such as Alexander McQueen and Mihara Yasuhiro. The
PUMA Group owns the brands PUMA, Cobra Golf and Tretorn. The company, which was founded in 1948, distributes its products in
more than 120 countries, employs about 11,000 people worldwide and has headquarters in Herzogenaurach/Germany, Boston,
London and Hong Kong. For more information, please visit http://www.puma.com

Page 4

