California Transparency in Supply Chains Act (SB 657) and
UK Modern Slavery Act Disclosure Statement
2017

Table of Contents
A. Introduction
1.
Human Trafficking Background
2.
California Senate Bill 657 and UK Modern Slavery Act
3.
Patagonia Practices
4.
Patagonia History
5.
Disclosure Statement
B. Disclosure
1)
Verification
a. Verification Protocols
b. Verification Frequency
c. Labor Brokers
2)
Supplier Audits
a. Audit Methodology
b. Audit Statistics
c. Auditor Information
3)
Certification
a. Certification Requirements
b. Accountability Efforts
4)
Internal Accountability
a. Identification of Policies
b. Worker Protections
5)
Training
a. Training Methodology
b. Personnel Being Trained
C. Helpful Links
I.
Informative human trafficking websites
II.
Information and Statistics – General
III.
Information and Statistics – Supply Chain Related
IV.
Help for Suppliers and Brands

1|Page

A. INTRODUCTION
“Human Trafficking is a crime against humanity. It involves an act of recruiting, transporting,
transferring, harbouring or receiving a person through a use of force, coercion or other means,
for the purpose of exploiting them.” – United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime
“If we want to make a significant change in the lives of the 21 million men, women and children
in forced labour, we need to take concrete and immediate action.” “That means working with
governments to strengthen law, policy and enforcement, with employers to strengthen their due
diligence against forced labour, including in their supply chains, and with trade unions to
represent and empower those at risk.” – The ILO Director General
1. Human Trafficking Background
Human trafficking is the second most prevalent form of illegal trade in the world, just
after the illicit drug trade and equal to the sale of illegal arms. Sometimes referred to as
modern day slavery, it is also the fastest growing illegal business in the world.¹
According to International Labor Organization (ILO) data, there are nearly 21 million
forced labor victims and 9.1 million human trafficking victims worldwide. Men are
affected, but women and children are particularly vulnerable.² These crimes affect nearly
every country in the world, and are unbounded by industry or sector.
Human trafficking in any industry is a result of poverty and a lack of education,
government action and political will. It’s often thought of as a problem in the illegal sex
trade, but human trafficking can be found in garment factories, fabric and trim mills, and
farms in the supply chain. Factories that use third-party labor brokers or unmonitored
subcontractors are particularly susceptible. Even in the United States, where foreign
migrant workers may seek employment through third-party brokers, factories sometimes
employ human trafficking victims.
2. Cal. Civ. Code § 1714.43 (SB 657) - California Transparency in Supply Chains Act
(“the Act”)
Beginning January 1, 2012, the Act “require(s) all retail sellers and manufacturers doing
business in the state to disclose their efforts to eradicate slavery and human trafficking
from their direct supply for tangible goods offered for sale.” The Act helps consumers
make informed purchasing decisions by providing them with information on the efforts
that companies are taking to ensure their products are not made under slavery or
trafficking conditions.
The Act applies to all retailers or manufacturers doing business in the state of California
with greater than $100 million in annual worldwide gross receipts, and affects thousands
of businesses with operations in the state. It is important to note that the act does not
regulate a company’s labor practices, but instead requires businesses to disclose
practices in five distinct areas: Verification, Audit, Certification, Internal Accountability
and Training.
Patagonia, as a California business, is required to disclose our efforts. We are
committed to sharing the practices we use within our own supply chain to detect,
mitigate, and remediate forced labor and human trafficking in our business operations.
2|Page

This statement was written following The California Transparency in Supply Chains Act –
Resource Guide published by the State Attorney General.
3. UK Modern Slavery Act 2015
This statement also serves to fulfill the requirements of the UK Modern Slavery Act
2015. Similar to the California Transparency in Supply Chains Act, “One key purpose of
this measure is to prevent modern slavery in organisations and their supply chains. A
means to achieve this is to increase transparency by ensuring the public, consumers,
employees and investors know what steps an organisation is taking to tackle modern
slavery.” Organizations, therefore, are required to make this information known through
a public statement.
4. Patagonia History
Patagonia is an outdoor apparel and gear company for sports including surfing, climbing,
fly fishing, skiing and trail running. Founded in 1973 in Ventura, California, the company
remains privately held. Our products are sold in over 40 countries through our stores,
retailers and online, and, our supply chain of finished goods factories and material
suppliers spans across 25 countries.
Patagonia has long focused on preventing and, where necessary, remediating a wide
range of issues in our supply chain, including forced labor, child labor and other human
rights abuses. Patagonia has a dedicated team located in six countries that works full
time on social and environmental responsibility. This team reports directly to the Chief
Operating Officer.
In the mid-1990’s, we developed and implemented a Workplace Code of Conduct and
factory monitoring programs in our finished goods factories to combat human trafficking
and forced labor. Additionally, in 2011 Patagonia expanded its monitoring program to
include our “Tier 2” suppliers who supply our finished goods factories with the materials
that make up our products. Specifically, this work led to the Patagonia Migrant Worker
Employment Standards, developed in consultation with an independent third party,
Verité, to cover the entire employment life cycle in our supply chain partners including:
pre-hiring interactions, labor contracts, wages and fees, retention of passports, living and
working conditions, grievance procedures, and repatriation. A detailed timeline of our
work on these issues can be found on our Protecting Migrant Worker webpage.
5. Patagonia Policy on Forced Labor
Patagonia prohibits forced labor and human trafficking in all of its forms in our supply
chain. When we evaluate potential new factory partners, we will not place purchase
orders if we find forced labor. If we find forced labor in one of our existing partners’
factories, that factory is subject to our escalation policy, including a remediation plan to
demonstrate commitment to eradicating the practice at issue. In all cases, where a
factory is a part of Patagonia’s supply chain, incidences or conditions contributing to
slavery or human trafficking are grounds to end business relations if not eliminated.
We fully support the efforts of a growing number of anti-slavery activist groups,
nongovernmental organizations (NGO’s), and our state and federal government to shed
light on human trafficking, slavery, and child labor in the supply chain. We are hopeful
3|Page

that these and other human rights concerns will continue to receive attention and
analysis in the public and private spheres.
We welcome your feedback on our disclosure statement. Please email us
at social_responsibility@patagonia.com.

B. DISCLOSURE of PATAGONIA PURSUANT TO THE CALIFORNIA TRANSPARENCY IN
SUPPLY CHAINS ACT and UK MODERN SLAVERY ACT
Focusing on the five topic areas covered in the California Transparency Act, our
statement discloses how we monitor our supply chain for child labor and all forms of
forced labor, including slavery and human trafficking. The statement also serves to fulfill
the disclosure requirements of the UK Modern Slavery Act.
1. Verification
Requirement: “[D]isclose to what extent, if any, [the company]…[e]ngages in verification
of product supply chains to evaluate and address risks of human trafficking and slavery.
The disclosure shall specify if the verification was not conducted by a third party.”
a. Verification Protocols
Patagonia is committed to fair labor practices within our supply chain. We are a
founding and fully accredited member of the Fair Labor Association (FLA). The
purpose of this multistakeholder organization is to improve working conditions in
factories worldwide. The NGO’s code of conduct, which Patagonia has adopted in
full and supplemented with additional standards, requires suppliers to prohibit any
forms of forced labor, human trafficking, or child labor in the supply chain.
Additionally, our Code has detailed benchmark standards that align with each code
element.
We have written policies and procedures outlining how we identify, evaluate, address
and remediate human trafficking and child labor. As an accredited member of the
FLA, these policies and procedures also comply with the FLA’s Principles of Fair
Labor and Responsible Sourcing.
To maximize coverage of our supply chain and to ensure checks-and-balances, we
engage with third-party monitors and employ a team of full-time Field Managers
based throughout Asia to audit our factories for human trafficking and slavery.
These skilled and experienced monitors identify abuses using a multi-pronged
approach, including interviews with workers and management, observational tours of
the factory, documentation review and geographic and industry risk assessments.
Our audit tool and protocol includes a robust section on child labor and migrant
workers with specific questions that look for indications of human trafficking. In
addition, the FLA randomly audits a sampling of the garment factories in our supply
chain each year and posts the results for public viewing on their website.
To ensure that our supply chain complies with our policies and procedures, all of our
new factories undergo a four-fold prescreening audit process. The process includes
screening by our social and environmental responsibility, sourcing and quality teams.
The social and environmental responsibility team have equal voting power as the
4|Page

other departments in the final selection of new factories. This measure ensures that
we do not contract with factories that have substandard human rights and
environmental practices to begin with.
For current factories, we audit all of our cutting, sewing and finishing factories, and
their subcontractors, for compliance with our Code of Conduct and detailed
benchmark document. This includes compliance with our policies on forced and child
labor. This practice has been part of our social responsibility program since the mid1990s. As of late 2011, we traced our materials supply chain and currently monitor
our key mills that collectively make up close to 80% of our annual cost. We require
immediate remediation if we find any noncompliance with our Code of Conduct,
including slave labor, human trafficking and child labor. You can find additional
factory social and environmental responsibility information on our Corporate
Responsibility and Footprint Chronicles® site.
b. Frequency
Patagonia tracks and records its direct suppliers and material manufacturers on an
ongoing basis. New and existing suppliers submit mapping documents that detail
their supply chain and are required to keep Patagonia abreast of any changes.
Patagonia uses this information to identify sites that will be monitored throughout the
duration of our relationship with the supplier.
All new factories undergo a pre-sourcing audit and only when a factory is able to
satisfactorily meet our standards can orders be placed. The supplier is then put on a
monitoring cycle and programs tailored to the supplier’s performance level. This
includes audits, trainings, capacity building consultations, and other types of
engagements that help the supplier identify root causes and achieve full compliance.
Depending on the factory’s needs and performance, these events can occur monthly
up to annually, and for auditing events, they always include an evaluation of forced
labor and human trafficking.
Patagonia headquarters is also formally audited by FLA staff every three years for
compliance with the FLA’s 10 Principles of Fair Labor and Responsible Sourcing. In
addition, we are required to complete an extensive annual self-assessment to
maintain our accreditation in between formal audits. Lastly, as a B-Corporation, we
are required to submit a self-assessment every two years, allow onsite audits by BLab our certifier, and publish an annual B-Corp report which includes efforts on
social and environmental responsibility.
c. Labor Brokers
The use of labor brokers to hire migrant workers increases the risk of human
trafficking and forced labor. In recognition of this, we have taken concrete steps to
improve identification of the presence of labor brokers in our supply chain through
our social audit tool and protocol. Our social audit tool includes a section devoted to
uncovering and understanding labor broker participation while our worker and
management interview protocol covers questions on the recruitment process that
would reveal whether a labor broker was involved and any fees paid to the labor
broker(s) in the sending and receiving country which could contribute to a human
trafficking situation.
5|Page

If we find a factory to be at high risk for human trafficking through these initial audits,
we will follow-up with an in-depth migrant worker audit. We developed the migrant
worker audit in late-2014 after we discovered that many of our Taiwan mills were
hiring migrant workers through labor brokers. This focused audit looks at the migrant
worker life cycle from the recruitment process before the worker left his home
country to the working conditions while he is employed to the repatriation policy
when his contract expires. The audit also evaluates the destination labor broker who
is required to be present during the audit.
2. Supplier Audits
Requirement: “[D]isclose to what extent, if any, [the company]… [c]onducts audits of
suppliers to evaluate supplier compliance with company standards for trafficking and
slavery in supply chains. The disclosure shall specify if the verification was not an
independent, unannounced audit.”
a. Audit Methodology
Our social audit program consistently monitors all of our finished goods factories and
their subcontractors (Tier 1), and, key material and trim suppliers (Tier 2, that
account for close to 80% of our total material cost). These factories and mills all
undergo our social audit and, if red flags for human trafficking are found, suppliers
will undergo our in-depth, specific migrant worker audit. Our factories and mills are
subject to annual auditing or more frequently if any labor or environmental issues are
found. Key “sophisticated suppliers” (ones that have demonstrated advanced CSR
management systems to remain in compliance) are audited less frequently but
independent third party audit reports are collected annually to reduce audit fatigue.
Our sophisticated suppliers are instead offered free trainings and other engagements
that helps the factory further elevate their CSR program.
Through our Migrant Worker Employment Standards, we have established clear and
specific standards for our Tier 1 and Tier 2 monitored suppliers to prevent the
occurrence of forced labor and child labor. These standards relate to ethical
recruitment, labor broker due diligence, human resource policies, record inspection
and tracking.
In all social audits, we employ a triangulation method for detecting and substantiating
findings which consists of:
1) Interviews with management and a diverse set of workers from various
departments. We will also interview migrant workers in their native language
and labor brokers in the destination country, as applicable.
2) In-depth review of documents that may signal forced labor or debt bondage
such as proof of age, payroll, time records, production records, disciplinary
notices, grievances, employment contracts, human resource policies and
personnel files.
3) Visual observations throughout the audit and particularly during the factory
tour and health and safety walkthrough.
Patagonia has a special section in our social responsibility audit tool which helps us
to identify indicators of human trafficking. Using the triangulation method above, our
internal and third party auditors must assess and fill out this section for every audit.
6|Page

Beyond auditing, Patagonia engages in numerous activities with our factories to
ensure compliance with forced and child labor laws and our Code of Conduct. These
activities include special trainings, continuous improvement programs, capacity
building initiatives, like the ILO Better Work program and Fair Trade, and
collaboration efforts with other brands and the FLA.
b. Audit Statistics
Presourcing
Patagonia conducts prescreening audits for all new finished goods factories and
fabric mills prior to initiating purchase orders.
Tier 1: Finished Goods
The scope of the Tier 1, finished goods, monitoring program includes 100% of the
finished goods factories and their subcontractors producing for Patagonia.
Tier 2: Raw Materials
The scope of the Tier 2, raw materials, monitoring program includes suppliers that
make close to 80% of the total cost of raw materials purchased by Patagonia
annually.
The majority of our audits are conducted by appointment with the factory. We use
this approach as it conveys our desire to build trust and an equal partnership. In our
experience, unannounced audits have not yielded higher rates of findings, if anything
it encourages supplier non-transparency and suspicion. To identify problem factories,
we rely on: the professional skills, extensive experience and expertise of our field
management staff; carefully selected third party auditors; the robustness of our audit
methodology; and our factory pre-screening process. With that said, we do conduct
unannounced inspections and surveillance of suppliers on an as needed basis.
c. Auditor Information
Patagonia monitors suppliers using a combination of internal auditors and
professional third parties. We employ four full-time Field Managers dedicated to
monitoring and supporting our supply chain on social and environmental
responsibility. This team is strategically based throughout Asia to reflect the
distribution of our supply chain. All field staff receive ongoing refresher and skills
building training and field evaluations. Our Social Responsibility staff in headquarters
are also trained auditors with an average of 12 years or more of industry experience.
To help expand our coverage and to create checks-and-balances, we also partner
with several vetted and pre-approved NGO’s and monitoring firms to conduct audits.
Included is the FLA who randomly selects and audits a sampling of our supply chain
in a given year and publishes the results online. We hire third parties to audit less
than a quarter of our finished goods factories and about half of our material
suppliers.
If human rights abuses are detected, the problems will be escalated internally
through the four-fold process and immediate action is taken, including intervention by
7|Page

our business units. In all cases, we conduct a root cause analysis to uncover the
underlying cause(s) of the violation to determine the best course of action.
3) Certification
Requirement: “[D]isclose to what extent, if any, [the company]… [r]equires direct
suppliers to certify that materials incorporated into the product comply with the laws
regarding slavery and human trafficking of the country or countries in which they are
doing business.”
a. Certification Requirements
All our direct suppliers are required to sign a statement that certifies the materials
incorporated into their products comply with slavery and human trafficking laws in the
country or countries in which they do business. We are also introducing this process
with our material suppliers to ensure that they also receive this information directly
from Patagonia. We know that education and awareness can be the best form of
prevention. To this end, we send our suppliers materials to educate them about
areas where human trafficking can be found, as it can inadvertently occur in the
hiring process if factory management uses a labor broker or third party.
Patagonia shares the following materials with direct suppliers and raw material
suppliers: the Patagonia Migrant Worker Standard; a summary from the FLA on SB
657; a list of activities that Patagonia does to reduce the risk of human trafficking in
the supply chain; a Frequently Asked Questions sheet on migrant worker issues; a
questionnaire that identifies human trafficking risks in hiring practices; and a list of
helpful websites about the issue. To further enhance our efforts, we include human
trafficking awareness training when we onboard new suppliers and during annual
Code of Conduct training for existing ones (an FLA requirement).
b. Accountability Efforts
Along with the compliance statement, suppliers are expected to be able to
demonstrate their compliance as well. Verification of this happens during audits
where our suppliers are asked to present evidence, including, but not limited to: age
documents, payroll and time records, production records, disciplinary notices,
grievances, employment contracts, human resource policies, personnel files and
training records. Interviews are also conducted with management and workers to
substantiate the documents reviewed.
If migrant workers are employed we take additional measures to investigate the
situation. As follow-up, the supplier will be asked to complete a survey to provide
information on any labor brokers and migrant workforce including composition, fees
paid, conditions of employment and so forth. If the survey reveals indicators of
human trafficking or slavery, we will move quickly to arrange a focused migrant
worker audit. The results of the audit and the supplier’s willingness to make
continuous improvements are analyzed and presented to the 4-fold team for
discussion of next steps.

8|Page

4) Internal Accountability
Requirement: “[D]isclose to what extent, if any, [the company]… [m]aintains internal
accountability standards and procedures for employees or contractors failing to meet
company standards regarding slavery and trafficking.”
a. Identification of Policies
Patagonia headquarters is formally audited by FLA staff every three years against
the FLA’s Principles of Fair Labor and Responsible Sourcing, with an annual selfassessment in between years. In 2013, the FLA reaccredited our Social and
Environmental Responsibility program. Since then we have also submitted selfassessments with supporting documents to demonstrate our ongoing compliance.
We are anticipating our reaccreditation audit in 2017. Additionally, as a BCorporation, we are required to submit a self-assessment every two years, allow
onsite audits by B-Lab, our certifier, and publish an annual B-Corp report which
includes efforts on social and environmental responsibility.
We have also developed and applied our Migrant Worker Employment Standards
throughout the supply chain. In Taiwan where we have identified pervasive migrant
worker employment in our fabric mills, we held a seminar in late 2014 for our
suppliers where we announced these Standards, provided education on the issues
facing migrant workers and showed how to identify and prevent human trafficking.
Patagonia prohibits any form of forced labor, including slavery and human trafficking.
If this grave concern was to be found in our supply chain, the factory would be
subject to our factory disciplinary policy. Disciplinary actions include immediate
remediation and possible termination of business. Aside from serious, unremediated
zero tolerance issues, it is Patagonia’s policy to form long-term relationships and
work with our contracted factories, in the spirit of continuous improvement.
b. Worker Protections
Factories producing goods for Patagonia are required to post the Patagonia Code of
Conduct and separate grievance hotline poster in a conspicuous place visible to all
workers. The hotline is a resource provided by Patagonia through a 3rd party who is
able to field calls in the worker’s language around-the-clock. Information that gets
collected is then disseminated to Patagonia to take action.
In addition, we require our suppliers to create and maintain their own internal
grievance mechanism. We have developed clear standards, a guidance document
and in-person training module to support our suppliers in this effort. We evaluate the
strength of their grievance system in our audits.
5) Training
Requirement: “[D]isclose to what extent, if any, [the company]… [p]rovides company
employees and management, who have direct responsibility for supply chain
management, training on human trafficking and slavery, particularly with respect to
mitigating risks within the supply chains of products.”

9|Page

a. Training Methodology
Internal Training
Trainings on Patagonia’s social and environmental responsibility efforts and the
issues affecting our industry are conducted throughout the year. We employ different
training and communication methods to educate or update our employees including:
- On a regular and as-needed basis we will conduct new hire trainings on our
corporate responsibility program during employee orientations.
- Our social and environmental responsibility team visit our stores around the
world to provide trainings. This includes our company’s efforts on addressing
migrant worker issues.
- We create and distribute Frequently Asked Questions sheets on particular social
or environmental issues. We have developed one on migrant worker issues and
human trafficking that has been shared with staff who work directly with our
suppliers.
- The SER team holds regular meetings with our business units to update them on
the migrant worker program including supplier progress, remediation strategy
and engagement and activity with stakeholders.
- We maintain a dedicated webpage on our Taiwan migrant worker efforts for both
internal and external stakeholders.
When we launched our response to the Act in 2011, we held a companywide human
trafficking awareness training in that same year. Since that time our efforts in this
area have expanded and deepened and we remain committed to keeping these
issues in the forefront.
External Training
Our training efforts also include reaching external parties such as suppliers, other
companies, government, media and the general public.
All of our audited factories and mills are informed of the Act and given, at minimum,
an introductory training on human trafficking and slavery. For our suppliers in higher
risk regions we devote a substantial amount of time on training and remediation.
Specifically for our suppliers in Taiwan we have held workshops, webinars, and
coordinated 3rd party trainings on many subjects related to the prevention, detection
and remediation of human trafficking. Education has been vital for bringing change
and we will continue to use this approach with our suppliers.
Migrant worker issues are complex and affected by many stakeholders including
companies, government, consumers and the media. We have made wide-ranging
efforts to engage with each of these actors. Through the media, we have made
public the challenges we face in our Taiwan supply chain and the strategy we would
employ to make improvements. This has helped to raise awareness of the issues
and as a result has started meaningful discussions with US and Taiwan
governments, companies across different sectors, NGO’s and our customers.
b. Personnel Being Trained
General training on human trafficking and slavery has been provided companywide
on an ongoing basis. Focused and more in-depth training on these issues have been
10 | P a g e

provided to key staff members who are in a prime position to help prevent, detect
and/or remediate such issues. These staff members include:
- The leadership team including our CEO, COO and VP of Supply Chain.
- The SER team consisting of 15 members, four of whom are Field Managers
based in Asia and spend much of their time in our factories and working with our
suppliers.
- The business units who work directly with our suppliers including material
developers, product developers and sourcing. Ongoing training is provided to
the directors and managers in each of these teams.

_________________________________________
Ryan Gellert
Managing Director, Patagonia Europe Coöperatief U.A.
[Signature as required by UK Modern Slavery Act and not California Transparency Act]

C. HELPFUL LINKS
Information on the CA Transparency in Supply Chains Act
•

California Transparency in Supply Chains Act - Department of Labor
https://www.dol.gov/ilab/child-forced-labor/California-Transparency-in-SupplyChains-Act.htm

•

California Transparency in Supply Chains Act – Law Language
http://www.leginfo.ca.gov/pub/09-10/bill/sen/sb_06510700/sb_657_bill_20100930_chaptered.pdf

•

The California Transparency in Supply Chains Act – A Resource Guide
https://oag.ca.gov/sites/all/files/agweb/pdfs/sb657/resource-guide.pdf?

Information and Statistics on Human Trafficking - General
•

United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime
https://www.unodc.org/unodc/en/human-trafficking/what-is-human-trafficking.html

•

US State Department, Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons 2016
Trafficking in Person Report
http://www.state.gov/j/tip/rls/tiprpt/

11 | P a g e

•

Verité Help Wanted: Hiring, Human Trafficking and Modern Day Slavery in a Global
Economy
http://www.verite.org/forced-labor

•

ILO Combating Forced Labor Employer’s Handbook
http://www.ilo.org/sapfl/Informationresources/ILOPublications/lang--en/docName-WCMS_101171/index.htm

•

Know the Chain
https://www.knowthechain.org/

•

The Global Slavery Index
http://www.globalslaveryindex.org/index/

12 | P a g e

