M O D E R N S L AV E RY AC T S TAT E M E N T
2017/18
Our Commitment
Oasis is a boutique brand with long-standing business partners, including suppliers who manufacture
overseas. As expressed in last years’ statement on Modern Slavery, we place high value on the human
rights of everyone working either for us directly or indirectly through our agents, factory base and thirdparty business partners.
Fundamental to our approach, we recognise that business can positively influence human rights and
commit to use our leverage (where it may be needed) to prevent infringements of human rights. This is
our second statement on Modern Slavery. The first can be accessed here.
The Modern Slavery Act, introduced in 2015, requires companies to ensure there are no forms of
modern slavery within their own operations or supply chain. The following statement sets out steps
we have taken to ensure we comply with the Act.
We recognise that our customers expect Oasis to be aware of and proactive about this issue so they
can continue to confidently shop with us. We will strive to continuously review and improve the work
we do in this area with a long-term approach.
I confirm that this Modern Slavery Act statement has been approved by the Board.
Signed by

Liz Evans
CEO, Oasis Fashions

1

ILO, Profits and Poverty: The Economics of Forced Labour

Our Core Supply Chain
Founded in 1991, Oasis has grown to employ
1,821 people across our retail portfolio and
head office. We operate through standalone
stores, concessions, franchise partners and online
through our own website and wholesale and
third-party websites.
As a business, Oasis has long recognised the
mutual benefits of maintaining partnerships with
our suppliers. To illustrate this, over half of our
products come from our top 10 suppliers, the
majority of which have worked with for us for
more than 10 years. Indeed, a number of our
partners have been working with us since the
brand was established.
Our supply base comprises approximately
80 suppliers and 139 factories. Key sourcing
routes for us are China, Turkey and Vietnam;
other locations include India, Romania, Bulgaria,
Pakistan, Cambodia and Myanmar.
Defining Modern Slavery
Our definition of Modern Slavery is derived from
the UN Guiding Principles on Human Rights:
‘Modern Slavery involves one person depriving
another of their liberty in order to exploit them for
personal or commercial gain’.
Our Policies in Relation to Modern Slavery
As a responsible retailer we continuously review
our processes. To create sustainable change, we
have a robust framework of policy development.
In 2018 we have revised our cotton policy.
Previously, we had banned the raw material
solely from Uzbekistan as there were widespread
concerns about both forced adult and child
labour in the harvesting of cotton. Turkmenistan
is a neighbouring country, and, like Uzbekistan, its
cotton sector is centrally planned by the state.
Human Rights groups have reported that each
year approximately tens of thousands of people,
sometimes including children, are coerced into

M O D E R N S L AV E RY AC T S TAT E M E N T
2017/18

picking cotton and face harsh penalties if they
refuse. This is classed as forced labour and is
a form of modern slavery. We have therefore
decided to extend our cotton ban to include
Turkmenistan.
In relation to Uzbekistan, we note the
International Labour Organisation’s (ILO) recent
report, Third-party monitoring of measures
against child labour and forced labour during the
2017 cotton harvest in Uzbekistan. The report
claims there has been significant improvement in
transparency and dialogue, especially by the state,
and that child labour has been abolished. It says:
‘The picture emerging to the ILO monitors
throughout the country was one of intensified
efforts to ensure voluntary recruitment [of cotton
pickers]. The monitoring and assessment confirms
that the majority of cotton pickers engage
voluntarily in the annual harvest. They have r
eceived wages, which have been increased this year
in line with recommendations by the ILO and the
World Bank. The monitoring confirms the positive
relationship between decent wages and voluntary
recruitment in cotton picking’.
We welcome these developments, especially in
relation to the discontinuation of child labour. Of
course, the ILO has not been able to confirm
all labour is voluntary. In terms of our policy
framework therefore, the ban will only be lifted
by us when independent and credible reports
verify that no forced labour is used in any stages
of cotton production.
To strengthen our efforts this year we have also
looked at and improved our procedures for
enforcing our cotton policy. We consider due
diligence needs to be more rigorous at the point
when orders, including samples, are planned and
placed with suppliers. Therefore, our Sourcing,
Buying and production teams will become more
involved to ensure they do not unwittingly place
orders which may use Uzbek or Turkmen cotton.

Policies:

Understanding our Risks

• Oasis’s code of conduct - The cornerstone
of our ethical trading strategy is our Code of
Conduct. Adopted over 10 years ago, it is based
on laws defined by the International Labour
Organisation and prohibits forced and bonded
labour.

Although we have long-standing relationships
with our global supply chain we have identified
this is the most at risk from exposure to human
rights abuse. We continue to map our first-tier
supply chain, building on the work of previous
years. As reported last year, we are also starting
to map our cotton supply chain beyond the
first tier of production with the aim to achieve
full transparency. This has disclosed that raw
material comes from Turkey, China, India,
Greece and the US.

• Oasis’s forced labour and human trafficking
policy - Developed last year with the expertise
of human rights specialists and NGO, Vérité,
this policy addresses the specific risks and
vulnerabilities of domestic and migrant workers
who may unwittingly find themselves in a
situation of forced labour in their efforts to
obtain work. The policy previously applied to
our manufacturing partners but this year we
are extending it to cover all business partners
and non-trade suppliers, including our franchise,
wholesale and licensing partners.
• Oasis’s cotton policy - As explained above,
we have banned cotton from both Uzbekistan
and Turkmenistan due to concerns about forced
labour.
• Oasis’s anti-bribery policy - Applies to all
employees, and in particular, managers and
directors, as well as contractors, agents, suppliers
and other third-parties. Oasis is committed to
the highest standards of ethical conduct and
integrity in its business activities in the UK and
overseas.
• Oasis’s equal opportunities policy - This
underpins respect for diversity within our
organisation. Our employment policies and
practices are intended to be fair and equitable
in order that we build a culture that values
openness, fairness and transparency.
• Whistle blowing policy - There is a formal
whistle blowing procedure in place to report
incidents where employees have reason to
believe there is an apparent or possible violation
of law or company policy including instances of
modern slavery or human trafficking.
		

M O D E R N S L AV E RY AC T S TAT E M E N T
2017/18

Our audit programme, which has been in
place for a number of years, is a key measure
of supplier compliance. The audit examines
contract terms and personnel files, as well
as wider procedures related to recruitment
and termination of employment. In doing so,
assessments can determine if there are practices
that could constitute or lead to forced labour.
We use a range of different tools, including
internal audits in China performed by our
ethical trading team, third-party assessments
commissioned from a limited number of labour
specialists and independent audits that are
shared through the
platform.
All first-tier manufacturing sites have been
audited with the vast majority audited every
year. Local offices and regular visits from our
head office teams ensure that communication is
transparent.
Additionally, in 2017 we conducted a further due
diligence exercise to gain an understanding of
how our trade suppliers manage the potential
for forced labour and human trafficking within
their businesses. This looked at their policies,
implementation, outsourcing and overall
effectiveness.
This exercise is ongoing and in 2018 we are
also widening our focus to include all non-trade
suppliers, including our franchise, wholesale and
licensing partners.

How is Modern Slavery Reported?
Quarterly meetings are held with the board of
directors where recent activity is discussed and
any necessary actions can be agreed.
Training and Capacity Building
At Oasis we have an internal ethical team who
work continuously with our suppliers and head
office teams to equip them with the skills and
knowledge to achieve ongoing progress.
Awareness training which references the policy
has also been delivered to key employees in the
business to help identify signs of modern slavery
and human trafficking.

M O D E R N S L AV E RY AC T S TAT E M E N T
2017/18

