M O D E R N S L AV E RY AC T S TAT E M E N T
2016/17
Our Commitment
As a boutique brand, which sources globally with long-standing partners, Oasis is fully committed to
supporting the Modern Slavery Act. We place high value on the human rights of everyone working either
for us directly or indirectly through our agents and factory base.
Fundamental to our overall approach, Oasis recognises that businesses can positively influence human
rights.
In relation to the Act, we have considered how we can take the most effective action to meet both our
legal and moral responsibilities. We have decided to place most focus on education and transparency.
Oasis commits to use our leverage, where it may be needed, to prevent infringements on human rights.
What is the Act?
In 2015 the government introduced the Modern Slavery Act. The Act requires companies to ensure
there are no forms of modern slavery within their own operations or supply chains. This is a complex
subject, not least because of the magnitude of the problem: the International Labour Organisation (ILO)
estimates there to be around 21 million people in forced labour, of which, 14.2 million are believed to
work in the manufacturing, agriculture, construction and domestic sectors1. These violations often take
place through deception and are hidden from view, making them difficult to identify and redress.
The following statement sets out what Oasis is currently doing and what plans we have in place to help
tackle this issue both within our own supply chains and operations.
We recognise that our customers expect Oasis to be aware and proactive on this issue so they can
continue to confidently shop with us. We will strive to continuously review and improve the work we do
in this area with a long-term approach.
We commit to sharing our progress with you on this journey next year.
Signed by

Liz Evans
CEO, Oasis Fashions

1

ILO, Profits and Poverty: The Economics of Forced Labour

Our Core Supply Chain
Founded in 1991, Oasis has grown to employ
2,000 people across our retail portfolio and head
office. We operate in more than 50 territories
through standalone stores, concessions, franchise
partners and online.

and so have strengthened our efforts and
adopted a specific policy on the prevention of
forced labour and human trafficking. The policy
was developed with the expertise of human
rights NGO,
.

As a business, Oasis has long recognised the
mutual benefits of maintaining partnerships
with our suppliers. To illustrate this, over half of
our products come from our top 10 suppliers,
the majority of which have worked with for us
for at least 10 years. Indeed, a number of these
partners have been working with us since the
brand was established.

The advantages of the policy are that it can
generate awareness of unfair and unreasonable
employment practices with direct partners and
help spread respect for human rights more
widely within society.

Our supply base comprises approximately
140 international manufacturing partners. Key
sourcing routes for us are China, Turkey and
Vietnam; other locations include India, Romania,
Bulgaria, Pakistan, Cambodia and Myanmar.

Further complementary policies include:
• Oasis’s code of conduct - adopted over
10 years ago, is based on laws defined by the
ILO and prohibits forced and bonded labour. It
remains the cornerstone of our ethical trading
strategy. Building on this, in 2010 we banned
Uzbek cotton owing to ongoing reports of
forced and child labour in Uzbekistan.

Defining Modern Slavery
We have derived our definition of Modern
Slavery from the UN guiding principles on
human rights as such: ‘Modern Slavery involves
one person depriving another of their liberty
in order to exploit them for personal or
commercial gain’.
Our Policies in Relation to Modern Slavery
As a responsible retailer we continuously review
our processes. To create sustainable change we
have a robust framework of policy development.
Most recently we evaluated the effectiveness of
our policies in relation to the Modern Slavery
Act.
We recognise that transnational and agency
workers, in particular, may be vulnerable to
abuse. It is our duty to address these issues

M O D E R N S L AV E RY AC T S TAT E M E N T
2016/17

• Oasis’s anti-bribery policy - applies to all
employees, and in particular, managers and
directors, as well as contractors, agents, suppliers
and other third-parties. Oasis is committed to
the highest standards of ethical conduct and
integrity in its business activities in the UK and
oversees.
• Oasis’s equal opportunities policy - this
underpins respect for diversity within our
organisation. Our employment policies and
practices are intended to be fair and equitable
in order that we build a culture that values
openness, fairness and transparency.
• Whistle blowing policy - There is a formal
whistle blowing procedure in place to report
incidents where employees have reason to
believe there is an apparent or possible violation
of law or company policy.

Understanding our Risks

How is Modern Slavery Reported?

Although we have long-standing relationships
with our global supply chain we have identified
this is the most at risk from exposure to human
rights abuse. We have taken the step to continue
mapping our first tier supply chain, which forms
part of our ethical trading efforts. Mapping is an
ongoing process as the nature of fashion means
a percentage of suppliers are likely to change
each year. In addition, this year we have begun
to map the cotton supply chain beyond first tier
of production with the aim to achieve greater
transparency.

We have considered what the optimum
indicators are to manage the risk of modern
slavery. We plan to use indicators related to
education and transparency such as the mapping
of the supply chain and training and awarenessraising within our business. Quarterly meetings
are held with the board of directors and actions
taken accordingly.

We will report on this step in future years.
Our audit programme, which has been in
place for a number of years, is a key measure
of supplier compliance. The audit examines
contract terms and personnel files, as well
as wider procedures related to recruitment
and termination of employment. In doing so,
assessments can determine if there are practices
that could constitute or lead to forced labour.
We use a range of different tools, including
internal audits in China performed by our
ethical trading team, third-party assessments
commissioned from a limited number of labour
specialists and independent audits that are
shared through the
platform.
All first tier manufacturing sites have been
audited with the vast majority audited every
year. Local offices and regular visits from our
head office teams ensure that communication is
honest and transparent.
Additionally, in 2017 we conducted a further
due diligence exercise to gain an understanding
of how business partners manage the potential
for forced labour and human trafficking within
their businesses. This looks at their policies,
implementation, outsourcing and overall
effectiveness.

M O D E R N S L AV E RY AC T S TAT E M E N T
2016/17

Training and Capacity Building
At Oasis we have an internal ethical team who
work continuously with our suppliers and head
office teams to equip them with the skills and
knowledge to achieve ongoing progress.
We routinely run ethical trading courses,
including the subject of forced labour, for our
commercial teams, and, in particular, our buying
teams. We plan to repeat and enhance the
training going forward.
In preparation for the Act, we attended industry
training courses and seminars on how modern
slavery can occur and what businesses can do to
avoid these abuses. We plan to build on this in
order to make further progress into the future.

