US English 

9

7 RALPH BAUREN

MEN
WOMEN
KIDS
BABY
HOME
CUSTOMIZE
BRANDS

SALE

TAKE AN ADDITIONAL 30% OFF SELECT STYLES FOR UP TO 65% OFF WITH CODE EXTRA30 Details

FREE 2-DAY STANDARD SHIPPING ON ORDERS $125+ FREE RETURNS Details

 

california Transparency Act

Ralph Lauren Corporation along with its subsidiaries has built its brand around the consistent production of high-quality products,
from apparel and home furnishings to fragrances and accessories, and its commitment to conducting business according to the
highest ethical and legal standards.

We require all vendors, factories, and contractors to adhere to our Operating Guidelines that we provide to each of them, which set
forth our business, legal, and ethical standards in the following areas: occupational health and safety, fair wages and benefits, work

hours, transparent record-keeping practices, freedom of association, sub-contracting, customs compliance, product safety, conflicts
of interest, anti-bribery, environmental sustainability, and prohibitions on child labor, forced labor, prison labor, discrimination, and

harassment.

Ralph Lauren Corporation supports the California Transparency In Supply Chains Act of 2010.

Ralph Lauren Corporation requires all of its suppliers to prohibit the hiring of slave labor and prevent practices that could
contribute to human trafficking.

To eradicate slavery and human trafficking from our supply chain, we:

1. verify product supply chains using third-party auditors to ensure that our product supply chains are compliant with our Operating Guidelines and all
applicable laws and regulations prohibiting slave labor and human trafficking;

2. conduct independent audits of our suppliers to evaluate their compliance with our Operating Guidelines and all applicable laws and regulations
prohibiting slave labor and human trafficking;

3. require certification by our suppliers that materials incorporated into our products comply with our Operating Guidelines and all applicable laws
and regulations prohibiting slave labor and human trafficking in countries where our suppliers are doing business;

4. maintain internal accountability standards and procedures for employees and contractors failing to meet our Operating Guidelines prohibiting slave
labor and human trafficking; and

5. provide training for our supply chain executives and employees on the prevention of human trafficking and slave labor.

Ralph Lauren Corporation's reputation for product excellence begins in our suppliers? facilities.

SIGN UP FOR EMAILS

Click Here To Read Ralph Lauren's Privacy Notice. Or Contact Us.

 

ee

ABOUT

About Us
Privacy
Terms Of Use
Careers

Find A Store

RL Mag

ACCOUNT

My Account
Check Order

Returns

CUSTOMER ASSISTANCE

Contact Us

California Transparency Act
Operating Guidelines

Gift Card

Shipping

Authentic Style

FAG

[el
Eo
Cl
ca
cE

COPYRIGHT 2018 RALPH LAUREN. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
