ays
UK GBP 

FREE Click Collect to store*

QUICK ORDER HELP

2 LOG IN REGISTER

 

List My Bag (0) fe WOMEN MEN UNIS EX 

Enter promotional code 

 

 

 

 

Rated by our customers

home customer service modern slavery act statement

FAQ

Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy
Contact Us

Size Guides

About Us
Our Story
Our Clothing
Our Customers

Corporate Responsibility

Reasons to shop
Fast Courier Delivery
International Delivery
Parcel Insurance

Modern Slavery Act
statement

Gender Pay Report

Help for Heroes Donation

Fast courier delivery

MY ACCOUNT

Account Details

Communication Options

CALL US

UK Orderlne 0844 844 1111

Modern Slavery Act Statement

Cotton Traders Limited
Cotton Traders is a British retail company offering a wide range of leisurewear, outdoor casual
clothing as well as footwear and more recently homeware. We employ over 1000 people in the UK in

our stores and at our Head oftice

We have over 60 factories in 15 countries that produce our products, all of which are signed up to
our Ethical Trading Policy.

We behave in a responsible and ethical way and take modern day slavery and human tratticking
extremely seriously We are tully committed to taking action to combat modern day slavery and

human tratticking and also to uphold human rights across all of our business and our supply chain.

Having a clear understanding and knowledge of our Supply base is tundamental to our business to
ensure that we approach the issue of dealing with modern day slavery and human trafficking.

Our Policies.

We require all of our suppliers and factories invoWed in the manutacture ot goods to comply with our
Ethical Trading Policy. Within our Ethical Trading policy it clearly highlights that our supplers have an
obligation to ensure that employment is chosen treely.

We will only work with suppliers who provide their employees with a sate and healthy working
environment. Suppliers must conform to the labour and health laws of the country of manutacture as a

minimum,

Our Suppliers shall recognise the dignity of the individual. They will not use slavery, involuntary prison
or forced labour.

They will attord the rights of lawtul tree association and collective bargaining to all Employees and the
right to a workplace tree ot harassment, abuse, degrading treatment or corporal punishment.

They will respect their Employees private and family lite and their right to freedom of thought,
conscience and religion.

Due Diligence.

We work with independent auditing companies to ensure that our factories comply with our Ethical
Standard policy.

The audit process supports and facilitates our commitment to continued improvement of all our
factories, to ensure that the employees are working in a sate clean environment and in accordance

with all applicable local legislation.

In such circumstances when an audit tails we work closely with the factory to deal with the issues until
they are resolved.

lt we bring a new supplier into the business we first request any third party audits to be submitted.
These audits have a maximum life span of no longer than 12 months, which will help us to see if we
can progress with them, an independent audit is then actioned to our own standards.

Our Commitment.

We will continue to work alongside our factories with regard to modern slavery and be committed to
continuously review and improve our procedures to prevent modern day slavery in our business.

This statement was approved by the Board of Cotton Traders Ltd.

Signed.

December 2017

Easy returns Reasons to shop with us

Stay in touch

Htiy 

CUSTOMER SERVICE ABOUT US HOW TO SHOP
Help FAQ Our Story Store Locator
Contact us Careers How to Shop Online

Delivery Returns Reasons to Shop Request a Catalogue

International Delivery Modern Slavery Act Statement Quick Order
Terms Conditions Corporate Responsibility

Privacy Cookies

Overseas Customer Care 00 44 161 3747220

Terms Conditions

SIGN IN HERE

Privacy Cookies Site may
