SEARCH

ABOUT MEDIA INVESTORS CAREERS GLOBAL PHILANTHROPY

 

SUSUALYAETTU TY

UNDER AAMOUR

Tee Lt)
Our disclosure pursuant to the California Transparency in Supply Chains Act of 2010 (SB
aa

657) appears below.

SASH eat

Verification: Under Armour has conducted, and has required the independent third-party

firms that conduct direct supplier inspections to conduct, assessments of the risks of slavery

SUSTAINABILITY

and human trafficking. Under Armour seeks to address those risks by actions including

Aas Wissen Hla those summarized below.

March 31, 2017 Supplier List
Disclosure Audits: Under Armour has engaged independent, third-party firms ("third party audit firms")

Babette re neva) to conduct audits of direct suppliers that include assessments of the risks of slavery and

human trafficking. Under Armour has developed and issued a to
our Suppliers. As a Category Licensee of the Fair Labor Association we also apply
alt= mele my
maT) eer

the FLA's to our supply chain. Direct suppliers? compliance with

our Supplier Code of Conduct and the FLA Workplace Code of Conduct is assessed through

Approach to Labor Practices 
third-party audit firm supplier audits. Those audits may be announced or unannounced.

Monitoring Assessment . a
lis Additionally, the FLA conducts unannounced audits of certain factories that fall within our

Rea IAL ste) Esa pec ee] a(n

oe Category Licensee affiliation with it.
STE a

Product Design Materials
Innovation

Certification: Under Armour's manufacturing agreement requires its direct suppliers to

- certify that materials incorporated into our products comply with the laws regarding slavery
TYIAT PODS a sees DLS Ae ee te Oka Pe ees

Energy, Emissions, Water 



Rats)

other laws and standards regarding slavery and human trafficking.
Our Near-Term Goals
Internal Accountability Standards: Under Armour employees or contractors are expected to

ee meet company standards and procedures regarding, and prohibiting, slavery and human
ee

arte) ee ee
Reta

Mee ee

trafficking (including those reflected in its Supplier Code of Conduct and the FLA Workplace
Code of Conduct) and may be held accountable for failing to comply with such standards
SEL te ete

ree em

Ali Training: Under Armour provides its employees and management, who have direct

ie ee em responsibility for supply chain management, with training on slavery and human trafficking,

mT ar PMO COL Deh Leet] ee) Ae Ce aT es Mead deteeth)

products.

Conflict Minerals Report
014
ree em

- 0000?

TS ee

 

Foe
ee neath

 

Ww

Copyright 2078 Under Armour Performance. All Rights Reserved.
