EQUIP

OUTDOOR TECHNOLOGIES UK LTD

BRANDS

WHAT WE DS

LOCATION

OUR OFFICES

CAREERS

WORK FOR Le

 

Equip Outdoor Technologies UK Modern Slavery Act
Statement 2019

Modern slavery categorises offences of slavery, servitude and forced or compulsory labour and human trafficking. Freedom of movement
and the human rights of all people working directly or indirectly for Equip Gutdoor Technologies are of utmost importance to us. We are
committed to protect and uphold these rights throughout our organisation and our supply chain. Modern slavery has no place in our
business or in the world in which we live. This statement meets the requirements of the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015 to prevent modern
slavery in organisations and their supply chains. Organisations are required to make this information known through a public statement.

This is Equip Qutdoor Technologies UK Ltd's second statement made under the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and constitutes our modern
slavery statement for the financial year ending 31? January 2019.

Our values

Equip Quicoor Technologies UK specialises in the design and marketing of technical outdoor equipment. Our experienced and
enthusiastic team develop innovative designs, manufactured across the globe to the highest standard and brought to market throughout the
world. Throughout our organisation, we take our social responsibilities very seriously and believe that as a business we have absolute
responsibility to bring a positive contribution to the lives of the people that work both directly and indirectly for Equip.

Our business and our supply chain

Equip Quicoor Technologies UK is an international business with the head office based in UK. We are proud to own two
specialist outdoor brands Rab (est 1981) and Lowe Alpine (est 1967). We design exceptional product to meet the needs of our active
customers. We encourage our teams to thrive and be partofour success. Equip does notown or operate any overseas manufacturing
facilities, but we contract partners to do so to our required standards. Many of these contract relationships have been in place since the
origin of our brands. We do own and operate a Rab manutacturing tacility in the UK. Gur Rab supply chain has five major suppliers. This
includes three suppliers in Ghina and one supplier in each of Indonesia and Myanmar. Lowe Alpine has on? major supplier based in
Vietnam. These major suppliers are called Tier 14 suppliers and are the factories that supply us directly. In addition to this, we have 15
secondary suppliers. Through our supply chain we indirectly employ over 8000 people through our suppliers. We have regular and
frequent in country meetings which help to forge the long-term relationships we rely on to produce our quality products to the standards and
In the environment we require. Personnel from Equip at all levels, including design, operations, materials planning and buying will have
day to day discussion and frequent site visits. Qur overseas operations can be visited by Equip personal up to eight times a year.

Our policies and approach

With Equip Outdoor Technologies UK Ltd's product supply chain predominately situated in Asia we realise we must be extremely vigilant in
ensuring standards ar? met to eradicate modern slavery. We take our responsibility to protect and uphold human rights throughout our
organisation and supply chain extremely seriously. We do this by:

Demanding fair wages in all the factories we work with;

We make sure we work with partners in countri?s and ar?as that most benefit from the wages and employment that our business
brings. We understand we have the chance to improve the lives of the people that work for us and insist all employees of the
factories we work with are on a fair and living wage.

Maintaining long term relationships with our suppliers;

This allows the factories we partner with to invest in both the individuals that work there and the facilities they can provide them with.
We understand long terms partnerships don't quarantee good working conditions, however we work hard to develop this over time
and hope that the influence Equip can have on suppliers continues to increase.

Ensuring continuous production schedule with suppliers;

People rely on consistent and regular earnings. Brands that place orders once a year make it hard for factories to employ their
workers continuously. In contrast with this, we work in partnership with our factories to ensure individuals are able to earn every day
of the year.

Minimise the number of disruptive short-term delivery requests;

thas been shown that short term deliveries can fuel the overtime issues that are common place in many factories. When a brand
places an order with a short delivery time, the factory often increases overtime to meet deadlines. Whilst all overtime in all our
factories must be voluntary; there can be an implied pressure, which can be hard to monitor. By avoiding short term deliveries, we
reduce the chances of this.

Recognising UK factories have a viable risk from modern slavery;

Zero hour contracts are perceived to be a form of modern slavery which ts widely operated within the UK manufacturing sector. We
believe zero hour contracts are a form of modern slavery and Equip do not and will not operate such practices.

Adherence to Equip Outdoor Technologies UK Ltd's Supplier Manual;

All Tier 1.4 suppliers are expected to adhere to the Supplier Manual, which outlines minimum standards around our Ethical
Requirements including:-

Forced labour

Ghild labour

Harassment and abuse

Wages and benetits

Won-discrimination

Health and satety

Hours of work/overtime

Environment

Documentation and inspection

6 Freedom of association

Subcontracting and changes in manutacturers, factories or vendors or change of control

Animal weltare

Anti-bribery and corruption

Fair and free trade

Our business and supply chain due diligence and risk assessment

Equip Qutcoor Technologies UK has a long-standing relationship with the factories in our supply chain. Whilst this does not mitigate the
risks, itdoes allow a relationship of mutual trust, understanding and shared values. Our key activities to monitor progress, and mitigate risk
include:

Each of the Tier 1A factories is visited at least quarterly by an Equip Qutdoor Technologies UK Lid Director with frequent team visits
in acldition to this.

Allfactori?s have recognised industry standard audits and action plans in place (including WRAP, BSCI, Fair Wear) with action
plans in place. In 2019 these audits are being assessed internally to more diligently follow up on action plans and make a
commitment to continually improve against industry standards and processes.

Inthe larger supplier's factories, we have ourown Equip Outdoor Technologies UK statt permanently based on site.

Looking ahead

In 2019 we have anew CSR position to provide added focus on ensuring that our supply chain adheres to the CSR principles and
standards expected by Equip Qutdoor Technologies UK Ltd.

Our Equip Qutdoor Technologies UK Ltd's Supplier Manual is being refreshed and will be fully communicated to all Tier 14 supply
chain staff, with clarity on how to seek support and eradicate risk.

*e Continue a journey to audit our smaller tier 1B suppliers throughout the 2019-20.

Assess the likely risk in the material suppliers we use to make the fabrics that our products are made from.

This statement covers the financial period January 2018-January 2019 and has been approved by the Board of Equip Outdoor
Technologies UK Ltd.

Matt Gowar

Chiet Executive Officer at Equip Qutdoor Technologies UK Ltd.
22nd February 2019

ne <Rab lie

Regie red Office: Winsey Way. Samenroles. AFreton. DES5S 4LS. Registered in England No. 01168470
