Eng? Ui

Stores

Qo My 0





Customer Service

Track Your
Orders
Ordering 
Payments
Shipping
Information
Online
Retums
In-Store
Retums
Corporate
Information


Chart

Store Locator
Privacy 
Security
California
Transparency in
Supply Chains Act
FAQ
International
Ordering

DRESSES CLOTHING SHOES ACCESSORIES SALE FACTORY

CALIFORNIA TRANSPARENCY IN SUPPLY
CHAINS ACT

As of January 1, 2012, many companies manufacturing or selling products in the state of California will be required to
disclose their efforts to address the issue of forced labor and human trafficking, regarding the California Transparency
In Supply Chains Act of 2010 (SB 657). This law was designed to increase the amount of information made available by
companies with regard to efforts to eradicate forced labor and human trafficking, thereby allowing consumers to make
better, more informed choices regarding the products they buy and the companies they choose to support.

Forced labor and human trafficking can take many forms, including child labor. GBG-BCBG LLC has a zero-tolerance
policy for both forced labor and child labor and we are committed to ensuring that our supply chain reflects our respect
for human rights.

Our relationships with suppliers are based on lawtul, efficient and fair practices. We expect our suppliers to obey the
laws that require them to treat workers fairly, and provide a safe and healthy work environment. We require our
manufacturing facilities to confirm in writing that they conform to these standards, and we maintain a file of these
certifications.

We also reserve the right to make periodic, unannounced inspections of our suppliers? facilities to verify each supplier's
compliance with our sourcing guidelines and other requirements. Such on-site inspections are conducted by either our
Internal team or by a third party company, and we reserve the right to terminate the relationship with any supplier who
fails to comply with our requirements.

 

Customer Service

Contact Us
Store Locator

FAQ

 

 

 

My Account About Privacy Usage Get Insider Access
My Account Careers Terms of Use
a mei
Order Status Accessibility
Shipping Info Privacy Policy

California Transparency Follow 

in Supply Chains Act
Site Map

Return Policy

(0) nstagram Baeace book

@)pintere st

BC BasdeaxxzAud A GES Gaenatiarion

2018 Copyright All Rights Reserved 

 

 

COOKIE POLICY

At bcbg.com, we use cookies to gather
information that will help us provide the best
shopping experience. By using this site, you are
accepting our cookie policy.

Click here for more information.

aie) 5

 

 
