oor

 

CLUBS

SUPPLY CHAIN

COBRA PUMA Golf's Practices Consistent with California
Anti-Slavery Law

December, 2011

In September 2010, the State of California approved a new
law, which will require retailers and manufacturers operating
in the state to make public the steps they have undertaken to
eradicate slavery and human trafficking from their supply and
distribution chain. In line with the California Transparency in
Supply Chains Act (SB 657), Cobra PUMA Golf recognizes
the pervasiveness of practices that could be construed as
slavery and human trafficking and is committed to
addressing the issues within its supply chain.

Cobra PUMA Golf acknowledges the levels and types of risks
related to each country where its materials and goods are
sourced and produced. Cobra PUMA Golf has in place a
factory monitoring system to ensure compliance to Cobra
PUMA Golf's Code of Conduct. Our Code of Conduct covers
issues such as maximum working hours, basic wage,
respect, equality and restriction of forced |jabor amongst
others.

Furthermore, within our agreements, every factory which
manufactures Cobra PUMA Golf products is audited for
compliance with all Cobra PUMA Golf standards and the
relevant national and local laws including those related to
anti-slavery and human trafficking. Where such laws do not
yet exist, Cobra PUMA Golf strives to engage with all relevant
stakeholders to come up with policies and actions to address
the issue.

At present, our Safe audit process is the primary tool to
ensure that Cobra PUMA Golf's social, health, safety and
environmental standards are observed at our contract
factories as well as its subsidiaries, licensees or
subcontractors. During the audit, workers are interviewed
and amongst other topics they are asked how they obtained
their job, if they had to pay any fees and if they were given
back their identification documents. Foreign workers?
working permits are also reviewed. If there are dormitories in
the factory these are also checked and the working hours
records are thoroughly reviewed. All of these actions help to
verify that there is no human trafficking and slave labor.

SHOP BY OUTLET

FITTING TOUR VIDEOS

Our factories are also subjected to compliance audits by the
Fair Labor Association (FLA), which at present are all
unannounced visits. The main component of both the Safe
and FLA audits is the remediation of the areas of failure. To
achieve sustainable compliance, our factories are obliged to
address not only the areas of failure but the root causes of
the failures. Where such root causes go beyond the factory
walls Cobra PUMA Golf encourages our suppliers to engage
with stakeholders that can help address these root causes
on their own or in partnership with us. Cobra PUMA Golf also
supports capacity building projects and conducts regular
consultation with factories to improve the level of
compliance.

The program was established over 10 years ago.
Cobra Golf Incorporated became part of the PUMA. Safe
program when it was acquired by PUMA. In the event that a
case of human trafficking or slavery would be detected in
Cobra PUMA Golf's supply chain, the Safe team together
with the factory management would seek to eradicate the
practice and launch a fair remediation for the affected
parties.

In accordance to the new law SB 65/7, Cobra PUMA Golf is
dedicated to expand its standards and take measures to
cover the necessary scope and beyond in efforts to eradicate
slavery and human trafficking in our immediate supply chain
and eventually beyond. This will include strengthening and
making more explicit Cobra PUMA Golf's workplace
standards and policies for the manufacturers.

The new law, SB 657, will go into effect on January 1st, 2012.
