MEDIA RELATIONS NEWSLETTER DOWNLOADS CONTACTUS LOCATIONS GROUP English

WW FREUDENBERG

INNOVATING TOGETHER

California Transparency in Supply Chain Act

July 15, 2015

Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement Pursuant to the California Transparency in Supply
Chains Act The California Transparency in Supply Chains Act of 2010 (the ?Act?) requires large
manufacturers who do business in the State of California and have gross worldwide sales of over
$100 Million Dollars to be transparent about their efforts to eradicate Slavery and Human
Trafficking in their supply Chain. Within the meaning of the Act, Slavery and Human Trafficking
concern the practice of utilizing forced or compulsory labor in any work or service that is exacted
from any person under the menace of any penalty, and for which that person has not offered
himself or herself voluntarily. In accordance with the Act, this statement articulates our policies
and practices around recognizing and preventing human trafficking and slavery in the global
supply chain.

We are members of the United Nations Global Compact. As such, we adhere to Ten Principles
(see which
individually and collectively address our commitment to human rights and the elimination of all
forms of forced and compulsory labor. Our internal policies and practices, including our Guiding
Principles and Business Principles (available

at are based on such
principles of international labor and human rights standards. Accordingly, we allow workers the
right to freely choose employment, the right to associate freely, the right to voluntarily join or
not join labor unions and bargain collectively, and the right to do so in a workplace free of
harassment and unlawful discrimination. Likewise, we seek business partners that commit to
observe such principles and human rights.

Verification

We adhere to all state and federal employment and labor laws. Accordingly, we do not engage in
the use of forced, bonded, indentured or involuntary labor and do not tolerate our suppliers
engaging in such conduct. We do not employ third parties to verify supplier compliance. We
verify supplier compliance by insisting on it as part and parcel of our Purchase Terms and
Conditions (available at

Certification

As part of our contracting process, we require suppliers to certify that neither they nor any of
their subcontractors, vendors, agents or other associated third parties utilize child, slave, prisoner
or any other form of forced or involuntary labor, or engage in abusive employment or corrupt
business practices, in the supply of products to our company (Compliance with laws addendum,
available at



Training

We adhere to standards of responsible conduct and train employees to treat each other with
respect, and to adhere to laws, regulations and standards. We maintain formal employment
policies and standards under which there is no room for forced or compulsory labor in any work
or service. Our policies and standards are monitored by the Human Resources department, which
has discretion to discipline employees up to and including termination. We make available to
employees and suppliers information (Appendix A hereto) which enables them to recognize
forbidden conduct and encourages them to report it for appropriate corrective action.

Audit

We are vigilant of any conduct that violates company policies or principles. We do not engage
external auditors in connection with the California Transparency in Supply Chains Act. As part of
our policies and standards, we encourage persons who witness offensive conduct to bring it to
the attention of the offending party and to Human Resources. All reports of offensive conduct
are investigated and subjected to appropriate corrective action.

Internal Accountability

We rely on voluntary reports of non-compliance and take them seriously. In addition to relying
on legally mandated posters which advise workers of their rights, employees are also informed
of their right to lodge internal complaints without fear of retaliation. After investigation, non-
compliance of any employment or labor standards can result in corrective action up to and
including termination. Further, noncompliance by suppliers can result in termination of the
relationship when a supplier that does not comply fails to commit to a specific plan to achieve
compliance.

Appendix A-Q Aon Slavery and Human Trafficking: What Does it Mean and What to Do
About it?

There are numerous laws that forbid Slavery and Human Trafficking. As a signatory of the UN
Global Compact, our company does not engage in Slavery and Human Trafficking and does not
associate with suppliers that engage in such conduct.

What does Slavery and Human Trafficking Mean in the Twenty-First Century? Slavery and

Human Trafficking concern the practice of utilizing forced or compulsory labor in any work or
service that is exacted from any person under the menace of any penalty, and for which that
person has not offered himself or herself voluntarily. Providing wages or other compensation to a
worker does not necessarily indicate that the labor is not forced or compulsory. By right, labor
should be freely given and employees should be free to leave in accordance with established
rules. While forced or compulsory labor can present itself in many forms, in our global
manufacturing business, examples of conduct which may amount to forced or compulsory labor
are:

Child labor in particularly abusive conditions where the child has no choice about whether to
work

Physical abduction or kidnapping

Sale of a person into the ownership of another Physical confinement in the work location (in
prison or in private detention)

The work or service of prisoners if they are hired to or placed at the disposal of private
individuals, companies or associations involuntarily and without supervision of public
authorities

Requiring the indefinite lodging of deposits, financial, or personal documents as condition to
employment

Destroying, confiscating or denying access to an employee's identity documents, such as
passports or drivers? licenses

Charging employees (as opposed to employers) recruitment fees as a condition for securing
employment

Physical or (including sexual) violence as a means of keeping someone in forced
labor (direct or as a threat against worker, family, or close associates)

Full or partial restrictions on freedom of movement

Withholding and non-payment of wages (linked to manipulated debt payments, exploitation,
and other forms of extortion)

Deprivation of food, shelter or other necessities

Deception or false promises about terms and types of work

Induced indebtedness (by falsification of accounts, charging inflated prices, reduced value of
goods or services produced, excessive interest charges, etc.), and

Threats to denounce workers in an irregular situation to the authorities

Associates, contractors, and suppliers aware of any such conduct should report it to HR or the
Legal Department. Consistent with company policy, the company forbids retaliation against any
employee who reports or assists in an investigation of unlawful conduct, including Slavery and
Human Trafficking. Employees who believe they have been the subject of retaliation should
follow the company?s internal complaint mechanism for reporting retaliation.

Find Sitemap

About Freudenberg Performance
Materials

More information for you

Visit the website of the

Freudenberg Performance Materials is a oa
leading global manufacturer of innovative
technical textiles offering differentiated value
propositions to a broad range of markets and
applications such as Apparel, Automotive,
Building Interiors, Construction, Energy,
Hygiene, Medical, Shoe and Leather goods as
well as Specialties. In 2017, the company
generates sales of more than ?935 million and
has 25 manufacturing sites in 14 countries and
more than 3.700 associates. Freudenberg
Performance Materials attaches great
importance to social and ecological
responsibility.

PERFORMANCE MATERIALS

Search

Do you have questions?

Please contact our team who will answer
your query 

Share it on ?in, 3

Legal site terms
