 KODIAK US official website Help Store Locator Login My Cart(0)

fe KODIAK Lifestyle Safety Sale

 

FREE standard shipping on all orders over $100.

Home California Supply Chain Act

California Supply Chains Act

To address the regulations of the California Transparency in Supply Chains Act of 2010 (SB 657):

1. Kodiak-Terra USA Inc. assesses the risk of human trafficking and slavery related to the footwear supply chain. Country Risk Analysis is annually
utilized to assess potential trafficking and forced labor risks. Risk assessment is performed either internally or externally, or both. We require that
all manufacturing facilities comply with country and local labor laws as well as Williamson-Dickie's Company policies. We hold all of our suppliers
to the same standard and require that each abide by our ?Code of Business Conduct and Ethics? policy. The Company will not knowingly conduct
business with companies that use forced labor or other compulsory labor in the manufacture and distribution of products. The potential risk of
labor brokers is considered.

2. Kodiak-Terra USA Inc. conducts code of conduct and supply chain security audits of direct suppliers before we enter into any type of agreement
or partnership. We have developed and issued a code of conduct to our direct suppliers. Direct suppliers are evaluated on their compliance of our
code through audits renewed annually. If during the audit issues are identified, corrective actions are addressed and additional audits may be
conducted as necessary to assure compliance. Our audits are generally announced with reserved right of unannounced visits and are performed
by either third party or internal auditors, or both.

3. Kodiak-Terra USA Inc.'s purchasing agreements require all suppliers to comply with applicable laws within the country of business, international
standards, and trade regulations regarding human trafficking and slavery. The Company will not knowingly conduct business with suppliers that
use forced labor or other compulsory labor. Verification of purchasing agreements are subject to inspection without notice.

4. Kodiak-Terra USA Inc. maintains and rigorously enforces internal accountability procedures for employees and contractors regarding company
standards in human trafficking and slavery. In the case of non-compliance, Kodiak-Terra USA Inc. reserves the right to examine the specific
situation and in conjunction with the supplier develop a best possible strategy for resolution. If cases of non-compliance are not resolved within a
timely manner, Kodiak-Terra USA Inc. may terminate the business relationship.

5. Kodiak-Terra USA Inc. conducts internal training on Kodiak-Terra USA Inc.'s code of conduct and supply chain security to ensure the necessary
participants in supply chain management are knowledgeable and aware of the issues and concerns surrounding the supply chain, including human
trafficking and slavery, with a particular focus on mitigating risks. Kodiak-Terra USA Inc. requires employees involved in Kodiak-Terra USA Inc.'s
supply chain to regularly participate in external training programs and seminars on social compliance issues, including a required course on the
issues of human trafficking and slavery conducted by the University of Delaware.

 

Customer Service Company Information Finda Store Stay
Contact Us About Find Kodiak products near you Connected
Order Tracking Kodiak Technology 9 Special offers, new arrivals and news.
a . Store Locator You must be at least 18 years old to sign up.
Shipping Community
Returns Licensing Partners Email Address 
Warranty California Supply Chain Act

FAQ ao 

 

PONSA PRATT) ee eer AL Privacy Conditions of Use Site Ma
714 ec ne m_ 
