=s LACROSSE

Help Support

 

California transparency statement

Related articles

To address the regulations of the California Transparency in Supply Chains Act (SB 65/7), LaCrosse
Footwear defines slavery as ?the act of holding the worker against his or her will and controlled
physically or by violence or its threat for the purpose of appropriating their labor? as
used by Free the Slaves (FITS). FTS is an international non-governmental organization (NGQ) that
campaigns against the modern practice of slavery throughout the world and is the largest anti-
slavery organization in the United States.

LaCrosse Footwear defines human trafficking as ?any recruitment, harboring, transportation,
provision, or obtaining of a person for labor services, through the use of force, fraud, or coercion for
the purpose of subjection to involuntary servitude, peonage, debt bondage, or slavery? as defined in
the Victims of Trafficking and Violence Protections Act (TVPA) of 2000.

1. LaCrosse Footwear assesses the risk of slavery and human trafficking thru a preliminary
audit of its supply chain in order to qualify that supplier. This audit is performed by LaCrosse
Footwear on potential suppliers thru factory visits by a contingent of LaCrosse Footwear's
employees who work within supply chain functions. Audit includes on-site inspections, vendor
profile assessment and Vendor Acknowledgement and Agreement.

2. LaCrosse Footwear conducts follow up inspections of direct suppliers. We have developed
and issued a code of conduct in our Vendor Acknowledgement and Agreement to our direct
suppliers. Direct suppliers are evaluated on their compliance to our code though continued
factory visits and monitoring.

3. LaCrosse Footwear's purchasing agreements require all suppliers to comply with our Vendor
Acknowledgement and Agreement and applicable laws within the country, or countries, they
do business regarding slavery and human trafficking.

4. LaCrosse Footwear maintains and enforces internal accountability procedures for employees
and contractors regarding company standards In slavery and human trafficking. In the case of
non-compliance, LaCrosse Footwear reserves the right to examine the specific situation and
develop a best possible strategy for resolution. If cases of non-compliance are not resolved
within a timely manner, LaCrosse Footwear may terminate the business relationship. While
LaCrosse Footwear wishes to aid in the resolution of incidences of human trafficking and
slavery within LaGrosse Footwear's supply chain, it is not possible to effectively solve the
issue of noncompliance without the cooperation of the supplier.

5. LaCrosse Footwear conducts internal training on LaCrosse Footwear's code of conduct to
ensure the necessary participants in supply chain management are knowledgeable and
aware of the issues and concerns surrounding the supply chain, including human trafficking
and slavery, with a particular focus on mitigating risks. LaCrosse Footwear also encourages
employees involved in LaCrosse Footwear's supply chain to participate in external training
programs and seminars on social compliance issues, including on the issues of human
trafficking and slavery.

CONOO000 00000 000000000000 10

(800) 323-2668 07 Account 0 Support 7 Returns 1 Finda Retailer Jobs Legal
