 Get Help Home ET 

What can we help you with?

NIKE SUPPLY CHAIN DISCLOSURE 

NIKE, INC. STATEMENT ON FORCED LABOR, HUMAN TRAFFICKING CALE US
AND MODERN SLAVERY FOR FISCAL YEAR 2017 1-800-344-6455

 

Yam-4pm PT

Mon - Fri
BACKGROUND
At NIKE, we believe we have a responsibility to conduct our business in an ethical way. py
We expect the same from our suppliers, and focus on working with long-term, strategic
partners that demonstrate a commitment to engaging their workers, safe working
conditions and environmental responsibility. This includes working to combat risks of ABOUT NIKE
forced labor, modern slavery and human trafficking.
For more information on NIKE's sustainable engagement in our supply chain, please see
our Sustainable Business Performance Report that details some of the drivers we have
in place to transform our working relationships with suppliers to incentivize changes that 
benefit their workers.

CONTACT

The following information is to provide information required under the UK Modern
slavery Act of 2015 and the California Transparency in Supply Chains Act of 2010 as it DIRECTORY
relates to NIKE's business practices, and specifically how we address issues of forced Get predust and contact aupport
labor. options for your country

NIKE OVERVIEW and SUPPLY CHAIN STRUCTURE

NIKE is the largest seller of athletic footwear and apparel in the world. We sell our
products to retail accounts, through NIKE-owned in-line and factory retail stores and
NIKE-owned internet websites and mobile applications, and through a mix of
independent distributors, licensees and sales representatives in virtually all countries
around the world. Virtually all of our products are manufactured by independent
contractors.

We are focusing on quality, long-term supply agreements with fewer factories, that are
committed to our strict standards of sustainability and product excellence. Our sourcing
strategy prioritizes and favors these suppliers that show demonstrable leadership in
corporate responsibility and sustainability and who seek to move beyond minimum
standards. As part of our growth strategy, we seek partners who are developing agile
and resilient management systems which enable them to drive sustainable business
growth through minimizing their environmental impacts, fostering a strong culture of
safety and developing an engaged and valued workforce.

NIKE has disclosed a list of the independent factories contracted to make NIKE products
since 2005. An interactive map of NIKE's current suppliers including information about
the factory and its workers can be found here: 
The map includes the supplier group, location of the facility, tyoe of products produced,
number of workers, and information on the workforce profile including percentage
employment of women and migrant workers.

NIKE's commitment to ethical practices in our own operations and our supply chain
begins at the highest level from our CEO and Board of Directors. NIKE, Inc.'s
Corporate Responsibility Sustainability Committee of the Board of Directors review
significant strategies, policies and activities and make recommendations to NIKE's Board
of Directors regarding sustainability (including labor and environmental practices),
community impact, and charitable activities. Performance and Disclosure
Committee composed of our Chief Administrative Officer, Chief Communications
Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Operating Officer and Chief Sustainability Officer
reviews and confirms all company-wide sustainability policies and targets, reviews
performance toward targets, receives updates on key issues and emerging trends, and
provides oversight for efforts to improve data, transparency and disclosure.

Ill. CODE OF CONDUCT STANDARDS TO ADDRESS FORCED LABOR

NIKE takes seriously national and international efforts to end all kinds of forced labor 
whether in the form of prison labor, indentured labor, bonded labor, human trafficking or
otherwise.

requirements for suppliers are contained in our Code of Conduct and Code
Leadership Standards. The Code of Conduct lays out the required minimum standards
we expect each supplier factory or facility to meet in producing NIKE, Inc. products and
includes strict requirements around forced and child labor, excessive overtime,
compensation, and freedom of association amongst other requirements. The Code
Leadership Standards specify how the Code of Conduct must be implemented. The
document also articulates how we measure factories? compliance efforts and progress
against our Code of Conduct including specific requirements on the management of key
forced labor risks.

 

We have progressively raised expectations for our factory partners through evolving
standards of our Code of Conduct and Code Leadership Standards, most recently
updated in 2017. This includes adding specific requirements to address key risks of
forced labor including prohibiting workers paying fees for employment, requiring worker
freedom of movement, and prohibiting requirements to post bonds or make deposits as a
condition of employment. The Code Leadership Standards also contain specific
provisions related to management of workers with unique vulnerabilities to risks of
forced labor such as foreign workers and interns.

IV. DIRECT CERTIFICATION OF MATERIALS

NIKE requires its finished goods suppliers to verify they are sourcing materials from
vendors that are compliant with NIKE's Restricted Substances List (RSL) and with the
NIKE's Code of Conduct. NIKE's Supply Agreements also explicitly require suppliers to
comply with all local and country-specific labor laws and Code of Conduct and
Code Leadership Standards.

V. DUE DILIGENCE, RISK ASSESSMENT MONITORING

RISK EVALUATION

NIKE continually evaluates and updates its systems to identify and address risks in its
supply chain, including those related to slavery and human trafficking. This process
includes information from external sources such as risk assessments for key human
rights risks, supplier specific risk profiling based on location including the employment of
vulnerable worker groups and areas of improvement identified in audits, as well as
information on key and emerging risk areas identified through our engagement with
external stakeholders. NIKE is also working towards mapping and understanding
impacts further up the supply chain and to expand its engagement with upstream
suppliers of contracted manufacturers where additional risks of forced labor may occur.

AUDITING

We regularly audit contract factories, which are monitored on a schedule based on their
performance. These assessments take the form of audit visits, both announced and
unannounced to measure against the NIKE Code of Conduct, Code Leadership
standards and local law.

NIKE uses both internal and external third-party audits to assess compliance with our
requirements and local law. We also monitor conditions at contract factories through
audits and assessments by independent organizations, including the Fair Labor
Association and the Better Work Programme, a joint project of the International Labour
Organization (ILO) and International Finance Corporation (IFC). In 201/ we conducted
406 total audits and assessments.

NIKE audits include detailed criteria to look at risks for forced labor or human trafficking
Including the employment of vulnerable worker groups such as foreign migrants, interns
and temporary workers and high risk practices such as payment of recruitment fees or
restrictions on freedom of movement.

VI. REMEDIATION

NIKE works with internal, external, and independent monitors to carry out audits and
help in remediation and capability-building efforts. If we are alerted to an issue of non-
compliance within one of our contract factories by a third party, we investigate it
immediately and, where improvements are required, we seek to drive ownership by
factory management of correcting and identifying issues and improving systems to
address root causes in order to prevent future reoccurrences. |i the factory fails to make
progress against that plan, it is subject to review and sanctions, including potential
termination.

VII. TRAINING and ACCOUNTABILITY

NIKE believes suppliers that successtully address the well-being of their workers, by
engaging with them directly to understand their needs, will improve factory performance.
However, we know that our ability to influence our supply chain is dependent in part on
how we build the right incentives and sanctions into our business relationships. Our
Manufacturing Index introduced in 2012, scores factories on sustainability 
including labor practices on a par with traditional metrics of cost, quality and on-time
delivery.

To more fully integrate our sustainability criteria into sourcing decisions and to help
employees and management who have direct responsibility for supply chain
management, NIKE provides training to enhance understanding and compliance with
our sustainability policies and requirements including our Code of Conduct. That training
is required annually for individuals who manage production relationships with suppliers.

COLLABORATIVE SOLUTIONS

NIKE believes addressing critical human rights risks, such as forced labor, often requires
a collective approach. NIKE has long partnered with multi-stakeholder and external
organizations such as the Fair Labor Association, Sustainable Apparel Coalition, the
International Labour Organization's Better Work Programme, and the Better Cotton
Initiative to address labor risks in our supply chain. Through our partnerships with these
and other organizations we work on a wide range of human rights risks, including those
related to forced labor and human trafficking.

One area of emerging risks over the past few years has been related to the flow of
migrants and refugees into Europe. NIKE has been involved in a number of regional
activities seeking to address these risks. In April 2017 we co-signed a letter to Turkish
President Recep Tayyip Erdogan advocating for revisions to the work permit structure for
refugees in Turkey. The intention was to make it easier for refugees to seek and gain
employment and to provide greater protections from exploitation. This was an extension
of ongoing work on integrating Syrian refugees into the Turkish labor market with the UN
High Commission on Refugees, the FLA, brands, suppliers, local organizations and the
government.

NIKE has also been involved with leading brands and retailers in Europe developing an
approach to supporting factories to recruit and manage a modern day multinational
workforce, with the aim to enable manufacturers and their workers to adapt best
practices in recruitment, integration and end of service.

We will continue to expand our collaboration with other peers, NGO, organizations to
increase respect for human rights and to accelerate positive impact in the countries
where we and our suppliers operate.

This statement covers June 1, 2016 to May 31, 2017, and has been approved by Boards
of NIKE (UK) Limited and NIKE Retail 

Va
