 

PVH Corp. Slavery and 
Human Trafficking cain Kin

Tommy Hilfiger

Statement Underthe  
California Transparency

in Supply Chains Act
and UK Modern Slavery 

Who Is 

A Work With Us

ct Intern With Us
Grow With Us

This Statement provides an overview of the efforts that PVH Corp. (together with its Our Benetits

subsidiaries, the ?Company,? ?us? or ?our") has taken, including during our |nsijde Look

fiscal year that ended on January 29, 201/, to ensure that slavery and human trafficking

is not taking place in our business or our supply chain. We have prepared this Statement

on a consolidated basis for PVH, although not all of the entities in our consolidated group

are subject to the California Transparency in Supply Chains Act or the UK Modern Slavery

Act, because we have a common compliance program and common policies relating to

slavery and human trafficking across the Company.

Company Overview

PVH has excelled at growing brands and businesses with rich American heritages,
becoming one of the largest apparel companies in the world. We have over 30,000
associates operating in over 40 countries with over $8 billion in annual revenues. We own
the iconic CALVIN KLEIN, TOMMY HILFIGER, Van Heusen, IZOD, ARROW, Speedo?,
Warner's, Olga and True&Co. brands and market a variety of goods under these and other
nationally and internationally Known owned and licensed brands.

We are committed to upholding the highest moral, ethical and legal standards in all
aspects of our business and across our supply chain, and to making a true impact on the
people, the environment and the communities where we work and live. As part of this
commitment, Corporate Responsibility (CR) is central to how we conduct business. Please
visit to read about our CR program and efforts, as well as for
links to our 2016 and prior years? Annual CR Reports.

 

Alignment with International Standards; Policies

The requirements for doing business with PVH are based, in part, on the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labor Organization's Core Conventions
and the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. We are also a
founding member of the Fair Labor Association on whose Board one of our CR
executives sits. We have committed to the FLA's ten Principles of Fair Labor and
Responsible Sourcing and Production and have agreed to uphold the FLA Workplace Code
of Conduct in our supply chain.

 

We communicate our standards and requirements to our business partners in our supply
chain through the following:

A Shared Commitment, our code of conduct for all of our business partners, a copy of
which is provided to each of them at the outset of our relationship. First introduced in
1991, A Shared Commitment, prohibits forced and involuntary labor, whether in the
form of prison labor, indentured labor, bonded labor or otherwise. In addition, A
shared Commitment states that mental and physical coercion, slavery and human
trafficking are prohibited in our supply chain.

Our Supplier Guidelines, which are provided to both licensees and suppliers during our
onboarding process. The Supplier Guidelines mandate that workers cannot be held
responsible for fees paid to agencies or the factory in exchange for employment.

Our Branded Merchandise Policy requires suppliers and licensees to certify
affirmatively that materials used in the manutacture of our products are free from the
use of slave labor and human trafficking.

Each of the above has been translated into the key languages of our business partners so
that they can clearly understand what is required to establish and maintain a relationship
with PVH.

Verification of Product Supply Chain to Evaluate, Monitor and Address Risks of Human
Trafficking

We evaluate, monitor and address the risks of slavery and human trafficking in our
industry and supply chain in several ways.

Evaluation

We participate in multi-stakeholder initiatives that help us to evaluate and address slavery
and human trafficking risks in our industry and supply chain. PVH is a member of several
industry associations and programs that are dedicated to protecting workers? rights,
including the prevention of modern slavery and human trafficking, such as the American
Apparel Footwear Association, the Accord on Fire and Building Safety in Bangladesh,
the United States Council for International Business, Better Work, and the FLA (including
with respect to its initiative to better understand and prevent child labor in Turkey's
cotton industry). Additionally, PVH has signed a multi-stakeholder letter to the
governments of Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan conveying concern over forced labor issues
in those countries.

We also consult third party resources and databases, engage in other research, utilize
consultants and engage with members of civil society to evaluate slavery and human
trafficking risk. PVH provides for transparency through reporting, survey responses,
meetings with stakeholders and other means.

Monitoring/Addressing Risks

We continually monitor compliance with all of our CR requirements, including the
prohibition against forced or involuntary labor, and address any identified risks or
violations. We conduct pre-sourcing assessments before a factory is allowed to produce
PVH product, conduct regular audits once production begins, work closely with factories
to remediate any identified deficiencies and, when necessary, terminate supplier factories
that fail to comply with our policies, procedures or guidelines.

Factory Audits: Audits are typically conducted by reputable third party auditors or, to a
lesser extent, by members of our CR team, every six to 24 months. Several factors,
including the results of the previous audit, will dictate the actual frequency. Audits are
usually scheduled in advance with the suppliers in order to foster a relationship of trust
and cooperation but unannounced audits are conducted as necessary.

Audits are guided by a CR Assessment Tool that measures compliance through metrics
based on the requirements of A Shared Commitment, including specific metrics tied to
forced labor. The CR Assessment Tool drives greater objectivity and consistency in our
assessment program by ensuring that all suppliers producing PVH product are evaluated
based on consistent criteria. As part of the audit, we also seek workers? views in
confidence, so that we can hear, first hand, about factory conditions.

audit program encourages our business partners to assume greater responsibility for
their labor practices and general compliance by providing the opportunity for suppliers to
remediate any identified issues. We also reward those business partners that adopt and
implement our standards and policies with continued business.

Remediation: We believe that remediation best serves the interests of workers by enabling
the supplier to develop safe, compliant and respectful workplaces. Therefore, if an audit
reveals that a factory has failed to comply with our standards, policies or other
requirements, we typically work with the factory to remediate the issues. We engage
factory Managers In an open discussion on the findings, exploring root causes, and
support them in developing corrective action plans In addition, we meet with
our suppliers between audits to review their progress in implementing remediation
activities and to provide further guidance.

Termination: We will generally terminate a relationship with a supplier or factory if (1) It
fails to successfully remediate issues uncovered by an audit or (11) we identify what we
would consider an egregious violation of our policies or guidelines and remediation is not
appropriate or feasible.

Certifications: At the beginning or renewal of a relationship, suppliers are required to
acknowledge A Shared Commitment and agree to implement its requirements. PVH also
requires under its Branded Merchandise Policy that direct suppliers and licensees certify
that materials incorporated into PVH products, whether acquired directly or indirectly, are
from a source that does not use forced or involuntary labor and is not involved in human
trafficking.

Internal Accountability Training

Our commitment to upholding the high standards that we require for our Company and
business partners is reinforced at the most senior levels of PVH. Our Board of Directors
has a Corporate Responsibility Committee that is responsible for advising our Board and
management on policies and strategies that affect the Company's role as a socially
responsible organization.

All associates are required to undergo compliance and ethics training, including the
review and certification of our core policies, upon hire and annually thereatter. The
Company may take disciplinary action against any associate who violates any of our
policies, guidelines or otherwise fails to uphold our high moral, legal or ethical standards.

PVH provides management and associates who have direct responsibility for supply chain
processes with targeted training on slavery and human trafficking, including on how to
identify and mitigate risks. In addition, members of our CR team and other PVH
associates attend external training programs and seminars on social compliance issues,
including slavery and human trafficking.

We have a reporting hotline for associates, which is being extended to factory workers, so
that they may report potential legal, regulatory, or policy violations and other ethical
concerns. Grievances can be made anonymously and confidentially to the extent allowed
under applicable law.

As an external verification of our CR program, we submit to the FLA accreditation
standard, which incorporates an independent evaluation of each member's ?systems and
procedures required for successfully upholding fair labor standards throughout brands?
supply chains.? We have continuously maintained our accreditation since 2005.

External Training

We conduct targeted training for suppliers that may have an increased risk of slavery or
human trafficking. Qur CR team and other PVH associates also participate as speakers In
other external training programs and seminars on slavery and human trafficking to
increase awareness and encourage the adoption of best practices to address these issues.

Emanuel Chirico
Chairman Chief Executive Officer

The Speedo brand is licensed for North America and the Caribbean in perpetuity
from Speedo International, Limited.

For brand related customer service please CLICK HERE

For all company, investor and communications inquiries, please email us at investorrelations@pvh.com or communications@pvh.com

CA Transparency in Supply Chain and UK Modern Slavery Statement

We Are PVH

Our Company

Our Core Values
Leadership
Business Groups
Strategic Priorities
Business Highlights
Global Supply Chain
History

Archives
Recognitions

Corporate
Responsibility

Our Approach
Inside Our 2016 CR
Report

Our Commitments

Privacy Legal UK Gender Pay Gap Report! CA Transparency in Supply Chain UK Modern Slavery Statement

?201/ PVH Corp. 200 Madison Avenue, New York, 10016

Investors

Memo from our CEO
Capital Allocation
Corporate Governance
stock Price

Reports
Fundamentals

SEC Filings



Earnings Estimates
Events

News
