CORPORATE
RESPONSIBILITY

RG Barry incorporates its core values of integrity, quality, innovation, leadership, teamwork and
community in all of its business dealings. The Company's Team Members constantly strive to
achieve the highest business and personal ethical standards, as well as compliance with all
applicable governmental laws, rules and regulations. We believe that it is the responsibility of a
good corporate citizen to positively embrace social, environmental and governance factors as
part of the overall business strategy. We demand this, not only of ourselves, but of all who provide

us with goods and services.

TRANSPARENCY SUPPLY
CHAIN

ELEMENT 1

Engages in veritication of product supply chains to evaluate and address risks of human tratticking

and slavery. The disclosure shall specify if the verification was not conducted by a third party.

RG Barry's written policies incorporate our intolerance of all types of forced labor to our suppliers.

Suppliers are audited by an independent third party fo help insure adherence to our expeciations.

Conducts audits of suppliers to evaluate supplier compliance with company standards for
trafficking and slavery in supply chains. The disclosure shall specify if the verification was an

independent, unannounced audit.

RG Barry utilizes professional third party audit firms to complete social audits on our behalf and
on the behalf of our customers. Auditors perform comprehensive investigations. Announced and

unannounced visits are performed at random.

Requires direct suppliers to certify that materials incorporated into the product comply with the
laws regarding slavery and human tratticking of the couniry or couniries in which they are doing

business.

RG Barry requires all suppliers to comply with all laws regarding all forms of torced labor
including but not limited to: slavery, indentured, bonded, child or prison labor and human
tratticking. This is detailed on our Terms of Engagement, a document that must be signed by 

suppliers ana posted in a location visible to all their employees at all facilities.

ELEMENT 4

Maintains internal accountability standards and procedures for employees or contractors failing

fo meet company standards regarding slavery and trafficking.

RG Barry Corporation requires suppliers and tactories to sign our Terms ot Engagement. This
document requires all government, industry, and RG Barry standards be met. Our TOE, which
must be posted in a visible and accessible location within the facility, contains several forms for
supplier employees to contact our Global Ethics Office and report any violation of these

standards. RG Barry will not tolerate doing business with suppliers that are noncompliant.

Provides company employees and management, who have direct responsibility for supply chain
management, training on human tratticking and slavery, particularly with respect to mitigating risks

within supply chains of products.

RG Barry's Code of Ethical Business Conduct is published annually. This document outlines our
expectation for ethical behaviors throughout our organization. RG Barry also utilizes a standard
operating procedure when selecting suppliers. RG Barry relies on the auait reports trom Our
independent auditors. Should there be any concerns raised by these auditors, RG Barry would

address at that time.

HOME
LEADERSHIP
CAREERS
CORPORATE

COMTACT
