RISK-FREE TRY FREE SHIPPING RETURNS ON ALL 

Glicas A 2 9 2] sem 

tter
LEGGINGS TOPS ACTIVE SHAPEWEAR BRAS PANTIES HOSIERY PLUS MEN SHOPS SALE HISTORY

 

Home California Transparency Act

California Transparency in Supply Chains Act of 2010

Spanx, Inc. expects that its suppliers, manufacturers, contractors, subcontractors, and any other person who Is involved in supervising the manufacture and

supply of SPANX products (?Suppliers?), will share commitment to honesty, safety, and legal and ethical behavior.
SPAN is committed te preventing child, forced or trafficked labor in its supply chain and has taken the following steps in support of this commitment:

Spanx internally verifies its supply chains and monitors the factories that produce SPANX branded products. We visit the factories that produce our products
as well as rely on third party auditors to help ensure the quality and socially responsible manufacture of our products, including evaluating the risk of human

trafficking and slavery.

We require our direct suppliers to comply with the Spanx, Inc. Code of Supplier Conduct and we internally audit our suppliers to evaluate their compliance with

this Code.

We require our direct suppliers to certify their compliance with the Spanx, Inc. Code of Supplier Conduct and suppliers that do not comply with the Code (and

require that their sub-suppliers comply) are subject to termination and other remedies.

We are implementing a compliance program, including employee and management training with respect to mitigating the risk of human trafficking and slavery

In supply chains.

FOLLOW
US

aft wv

Si li ee got your butt (and Enter your email address
inbox) covered.

 

COMPANY INFO SUPPORT SERVICE SHOP N?ta Our tape

About Spanx, Customer Service Our SPANX Stores
Chat with us Call Us G)
Inc. Shipping Retail
Call 1-888-806-7311
About Sara Blakel Poli Locati
om oar ey oy Email us 
sara Blakely Return Global Distributors Support ID: 5801-9255-6385
Foundation Policy Size Charts
Careers Order Status

2018 Spanx, Inc. Terms Conditions Privacy Policy CA Transparency Act Accessibility
