Flat-rate Express Shipping $19.99 USD Sign Up for Island

Flat-rate Standard Shippi 10USD
at-rate Standar ipping ea, Email

Ship To 9 Find a Store or Restaurant Track Orders

MEN Lena Paleo FAN GEAR WOMEN SWIM BEACH DECOR CLEARANCE STORES RESTAURANTS 

 

CALIFORNIA TRANSPARENCY IN SUPPLY CHAINS ACT

1. In 2010, California passed a law requiring companies to disclose what they are doing to address slavery and human trafficking in
their supply chains. Referred to as SB 65/, the California Transparency in Supply Chains Act seeks to "educate consumers on how
to purchase goods produced by companies that responsibly manage their supply chains."

2. Slavery is defined as "the act of holding an individual against his or her will and controlling that individual physically or
by violence or its threat for the purpose of appropriating that individual's labor.? Human trafficking is defined as
"the obtaining, harboring, or transporting of a person from one area to another for the purpose of forcing them into slavery."

lLommy Bahama manages its supply chain carefully and continually assesses its suppliers? compliance with its high standards for
legal and ethical conduct, which include, among other things, zero tolerance for slavery and human trafficking.

4. Tommy Bahama has adopted a Business Partner Code of Conduct that addresses, among other things, the issues of slavery and
human trafficking and which apply to our direct suppliers. Our direct suppliers are evaluated on their compliance with this
Business Partner Code of Conduct through on-site audits performed by our in-house compliance audit team. Confidential
interviews between our in-house compliance audit team and our supplier's employees are a key component of the auditing
process, as is the review of, among other things, compensation records, working hours and hiring practices.

5. Tommy Bahama's product purchasing agreements require all suppliers to comply with all applicable laws regarding slavery and
human trafficking.

6 Tommy Bahama maintains and enforces internal accountability procedures for employees and contractors. If any evidence is
found suggesting that slavery or human trafficking may be present, we will act accordingly. Any instances of non-compliance that
are not resolved to Tommy Bahama's satisfaction, could, among other things, result in the termination of the employee or
contractor.

lommy Bahama conducts internal training on our Business Partner Code of Conduct to ensure that the employees who work with
our supply chain are aware of the issues surrounding human trafficking and slavery, and that processes are implemented internally
to mitigate this risk.

STORES RESTAURANTS oe] Ca reg el ve) ee THE ISLAND LIFE IN YOUR INBOX

9 @4 ie

YOUR ORDERS COMPANY INFORMATION FOLLOW TOMMY BAHAMA

cela Le About Tommy Bahama  wW

eA) ay ae De Corporate Events
Returns Exchanges ea a

Tamer) gal Our World of Products
Check Card Balance Digital Catalogs
Shipping to Canada

Shipping to Other Countries

UE ae

fi.

CA Supply Chains

Copyright 2018 Tommy Bahama Privacy Policy vel

 
