 Help

  

Accessories

Free Shipping Over $50

Home California Supply Chains Act

California Supply Chains Act

To address the regulations of the California Transparency in Supply Chains Act of 2010 (SB 657):
1. Williamson-Dickie Mfg. Go. assesses the risk of human trafficking and slavery related to the apparel and footwear supply chain.

Country Risk Analysis is annually utilized to assess potential trafficking and forced labor risks. Risk assessment is performed either
internally or externally, or both. We require that all manufacturing facilities comply with country and local labor laws as well as
Company policies. We hold all of our suppliers to the same standard and require that each abide by our "Code
of Business Conduct and Ethics" policy. The Company will not Knowingly conduct business with companies that use forced labor or
other compulsory labor in the manufacture and distribution of products. The potential risk of labor brokers is considered.

2. Williamson-Dickie Mfg. Go. conducts code of conduct and supply chain security audits of direct suppliers before we enter into any
type of agreement or partnership. We have developed and issued a code of conduct to our direct suppliers. Direct suppliers are
evaluated on their compliance of our code through audits renewed annually. If during the audit issues are identified, corrective
actions are addressed and additional audits may be conducted as necessary to assure compliance. Our audits are generally
announced with reserved right of unannounced visits and are performed by either third party or internal auditors, or both.

3. Williamson-Dickie Mfg. Co.'s purchasing agreements require all suppliers to comply with applicable laws within the country of
business, international standards, and trade regulations regarding human trafficking and slavery. The Company will not Knowingly
conduct business with suppliers that use forced labor or other compulsory labor. Verification of purchasing agreements are subject
to inspection without notice.

4. Williamson-Dickie Mfg. Go. maintains and rigorously enforces internal accountability procedures for employees and contractors
regarding company standards in human trafficking and slavery. In the case of non-compliance, Mig. Co. reserves
the right to examine the specific situation and in conjunction with the supplier develop a best possible strategy for resolution. li
cases of non-compliance are not resolved within a timely manner, Williamson-Dickie Mfg. Co. may terminate the business
relationship.

5. Williamson-Dickie Mfg. Go. conducts intemal training on Mfg. Co.'s code of conduct and supply chain security
to ensure the necessary participants in supply chain management are knowledgeable and aware of the issues and concerns
surrounding the supply chain, including human trafficking and slavery, with a particular focus on mitigating risks. Williamson-Dickie
Mig. Go. requires employees involved in Williamson-Dickie Mig. Co.'s supply chain to regularly participate in external training
programs and seminars on social compliance issues, including a required course on the issues of human trafficking and slavery
conducted by the University of Delaware.

Dickie

 

Need Help? Customer Service Company Info Dickies Nation
1-800-DICKIES (342- FAQ Dickies Pressroom Camp Woodward
5437) Contact Us About Dickies Eric Jackson:
. Competes in World
Sam - 8pm Central Coupons Privacy Championships
Time Promotions Conditions of Use Overland Tactical
Open 7 Days a Week Check Order Status Careers Shaggy's Copper
Be a CA Supply oe Act Country Skis
uaranteed International Sites Modern-Day

Returns Exchanges Business-to-Business Blacksmith

shipping Delivery Eric Jackson: The

Fit Guide Making of a Legacy

e-Gift Cards

Dickies Stickers

?2018 Williamson-Dickie Mfg. Co., LLC. Quality Workwear Since 1922

togin MyCart (0)

9 store Locator

 

  

 

Stay Connected

Special offers, new arrivals and news.

 



#DickiesWorkwear

SATISFACTION
GUARANTEED

 

Privacy Conditionsof Use Site Map

 
