Phas
eer essS 
MODERN DAY SLAVERY

Cleland|Mclver

lifesty Your Home ra where our Heart cs 

Social and Ethical Compliance, Modern Day Slavery and Human Trafficking Policy Statement

Cleland Mclver Limited is committed to ensuring that all workers involved in the production and supply of any of
its products, wherever they may be located, are treated with humanity and dignity and that there is no hidden

labour exploitation.

Cleland Mclver Limited acknowledges the provisions of the Modern Day Slavery Act 2015 and will ensure

transparency within the company and with suppliers of goods and services to the company.

The Company is satisfied from its own due diligence there is no evidence of any act of modern day slavery or

human trafficking or labour exploitation within the company and the supply chain.

Cleland Mclver Limited seeks business partners that strive to offer their workers, at the very least, basic human
rights and in accordance with the Ethical Trading Initiative Base Code and will not knowingly support or

deal with any business involved in slavery or human trafficking.

The Social and Ethical Compliance Policy applies to the operators of all mills, factories and any other
manufacturing premises, whether as contractors or subcontractors, or in any other business capacity where
products and goods are manufactured or produced for Cleland Mclver Limited. It also applies to other persons
or companies involved in the handling, supply, transfer and transportation of Cleland Mclver Limited products

and goods.

Allemployees and agency workers are positively encouraged to report any suspicions or incidents of labour
exploitation to senior management or use the Stronger Together or Fast Forward contact details for

confidential helplines.

This statement is made pursuant to section 54(1) of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and constitutes our slavery and

human trafficking statement for the financial year ending 30th September 2018.

Signed on behalf of Cleland Mclver Limited
Richard Melver - Managing Director

March 2019

TISC
REPORT

re eo

 

 

For more details click here

We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. You can of course change your cookie settings. Otherwise, we'll assume

 

youre OK to continue. Bead more 
