eo

Tree, ee ee
arises

)eeb ree
mt ot -e
wpone 
- om

-

.

 

 

 

 

 

 

MODERN DAY SLAVERY

Cleland|Mclver

lifesty Vour Home it where our Heart is 

Social Compliance Modern Day Slavery Human Trafficking Policy

Cleland Mclver Limited is committed to ensuring that all workers involved in the production and supply of any of its
products, wherever they may be located, are treated with humanity and dignity and that there is no hidden labour

exploitation.

Cleland Mclver Limited acknowledges the provisions of the Modern Day Slavery Act 2015 and will ensure

transparency within the company and with suppliers of goods and services to the company.

The Company is satisfied from its own due diligence there is no evidence of any act of modern day slavery, human

trafficking or labour exploitation within the company and the supply chain.

Cleland Mclver Limited seeks business partners that strive to offer their workers human rights and in accordance
with the Ethical Trading Initiative (ETI) Base Code and will not knowingly support or deal with any business involved

in slavery or human trafficking.

This Cleland Mclver Limited Social Compliance Policy applies to the operators of all mills, factories and any other
manufacturing premises, whether as contractors or subcontractors, or in any other business capacity where
products and goods are manufactured or produced for Cleland Mclver Limited. It also applies to other persons or
companies involved in the handling, supply, transfer and transportation of Cleland Mclver Limited products and

goods.

Allemployees and agency workers are positively encouraged to report any suspicions or incidents of labour

exploitation to senior management.

Signed on behalf of Cleland Mclver Limited
Richard Mclver - Managing Director

December 2016

Mor more details click here

We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. You can of course change your cookie settings. Otherwise, we'll assume

 

you're OK to continue. oe
