(Sill

WHO WE ARE
PORTFOLIO
INVESTORS

WORK WITH US

CA 657 STATEMENT

CALIFORNIA TRANSPARENCY IN SUPPLY CHAINS ACT

In 2010, a law was passed in the state of California requiring companies to disclose what they are doing to address human trafficking in

their supply chains. The California Transparency in Supply Chains Act seeks to ?educate consumers on how to purchase goods produced

by companies that responsibly manage their supply chains to improve the lives of victims of slavery and human trafficking.?

Apparel Group, Inc. strives to ensure that its products are produced in a legally and socially responsible manner and to

prevent complicity in abusive employment practices such as human trafficking and slavery. The items outlined below explain what G-Ill is

doing to address each of the five pillars of the California Transparency in Supply Chains Act.

1.

Verification of Supply Chain We have developed a vendor compliance program that requires vendors to comply with applicable
employment and human rights laws, as well as adhere to G-Ill's own standards intended to eliminate abusive employment practices,
including forced labor, human trafficking and slave labor. Vendors must also certify their compliance with such laws and own
standards. We verify compliance using internal and third party auditors.

Supplier Audits - We conduct audits of supplier's facilities using independent third-parties to determine whether these facilities are
in compliance with laws and our standards. We also use internal personnel to periodically verify compliance. Verification of the
product supply chain to determine whether facilities are in compliance with laws and our standards include both announced and
unannounced audits of vendor facilities.

. Supplier Certifications We require our direct suppliers to certify that they comply with all appropriate laws and our standards

prior to the placement of an order by us. This certification of compliance includes materials incorporated by our direct suppliers in
products they produce for us.

Standards We maintain internal accountability standards and procedures for employees or contractors failing to meet company
standards. Failure of our employees to abide by Code of Business Conduct can result in corrective action up to and including
termination of employment. Failure of vendors to abide by our standards can result in corrective action plans and other disciplinary
measures for vendors who are found to violate applicable laws or our standards up to and including termination of our business
relationship with the vendor.

. Employee Training conducts internal training with respect to our vendor compliance program and our standards to ensure

that personnel involved in supply chain management are made aware of how to identify potentially abusive situations.

 

212-403-0500


512 7th Avenue
New York, NY 10018

2018 Gill Apparel Group, Ltd. All Rights Reserved.

fi LinkedIn

Contact
Terms of Use US Privacy Policy EU Privacy Policy Cookie Policy CSR Policy CA 657 Statement Us
