 HANES
for GOOD

ENVIRONMENTAL
RESPONSIBILITY

SOCIAL
RESPONSIBILITY

GOVERNANCE

STORIES BY
COUNTRY

California Transparency In Supply Chains Act

CALIFORNIA TRANSPARENCY IN SUPPLY CHAINS ACT DISCLOSURE STATEMENT

As of January 1, 2012, California's Civil Code section 1714.43 (California Transparency in Supply Chains Act of 2010) requires manufacturers and
retailers to provide website information concerning their efforts to address the issues of forced labor, slavery. and human trafficking within the supply
chain. The purpose is to allow consumers to make better and more informed decisions about the products they buy and the companies they
support. To this end, the law directs HanesBrands to inform the public as to how it has addressed the following issues:

(1) Verification of product supply chains to evaluate and address risks of human trafficking and slavery. The disclosure shall specify if the
verification was not conducted by a third party.

(2) Audits of suppliers to evaluate supplier compliance with company standards for trafficking and slavery in supply chains. The disclosure
shall specify if the verification was not an independent, unannounced audit.

(3) Certification by direct suppliers that materials incorporated into the product comply with the laws regarding slavery and human trafficking of
the country or countries in which they are doing business.

(4) Internal accountability standards and procedures for employees or contractors falling to meet company standards regarding slavery and
trafficking.

(5) Training of company employees and management who have direct responsibility for supply chain management on issues of human
trafficking and slavery, particularly with respect to mitigating risks within the supply chains of products.

This webpage Is intended to fulfill these requirements through a full description of our processes set forth below.

BACKGROUND: APPROACH TO SOCIAL COMPLIANCE AND LABOR STANDARDS

HanesBrands Is proud to have implemented a rigorous set of standards for its company-owned facilities and its suppliers for well over a decade.
Our Global Standards for Suppliers (GSS) are primarily based on international labor and human rights standards. We believe that all workers at our
owned and supplier factories have the right to freely choose employment and to freely associate and collectively bargain. Our standards specifically
prohibit ?forced or involuntary labor whether bonded, prison or indentured, including debt servitude."

 

We are also a fully accredited member of the Fair Labor Association (FLA), an internationally recognized non-governmental organization (NGO)
whose goal is to advance labor rights globally and to help industry appropriately address a range of complex issues Including the eradication of
forced and slave labor across the supply chain. Qur work with the FLA, and other global NGOs and organizations, has proven valuable in our efforts
to ensure that all of our suppliers are compliant with our own GSS and relevant international norms.

HanesBrands realizes that forced labor and human trafficking can occur in many forms such as child labor, workplace harassment. workplace
abuse, and workplace discrimination. Therefore, our processes (described below) were created in an effort to eradicate such unethical practices in
all its variants.

CA TRANSPARENCY IN SUPPLY CHAINS ACT STATEMENTS

(1) Verification of product supply chains to evaluate and address risks of human trafficking and slavery.

HanesBrands regularly performs geographic evaluations of its supply chain to evaluate the risk of noncompliance in slavery. human trafficking and
other human rights and labor issues. This analysis is not conducted by a third party. Further verification efforts are described in detail below.

(2) Auaits of suppliers fo evaluate supplier compliance with company standards for trafficking and slavery in supply chains.

HanesBrands has worked aggressively for many years to audit suppliers to exclude these types of labor and human rights abuses from our supply
chain. The intensity and frequency of these audits vary based on our geographical risk evaluations and also on the historical performance of a given
factory in our internal and external audits.

Our auditing process calls for all of our owned facilities outside of the United States and our significant finished goods contractors to be certified by
the Worldwide Responsible Accredited Production program (WRAP). The WRAP process Is extremely rigorous and is described fully at
hito. wrapcompliance.org?., The WRAP certification includes both announced and unannounced independent audits.

For those finished-goods contractors that are not WRAP-certified, an independent third-party audit team from an internationally recognized audit firm
conducts a comprehensive factory assessment before production begins. Thereafter, the audit process is repeated annually. These independent,
third-party audits include an initial management interview; facility and dormitory (if applicable) tours; payroll analysis: confidential employee
interviews that cover such issues as working hours, payment practices, freedom of association, forced labor, child labor and disciplinary practices:
and a closing meeting with management.

(3) Certification by direct suppliers that matenals incorporated into the product comply with the laws regaraing slavery and human trafficking of
the country or countnes in which they are doing business.

Our finished-goods suppliers are required to sign a and comprehensive agreement which, among other things, requires them to comply with
all applicable laws (which include those regarding slavery and human trafficking) and our GSS (described above). Our suppliers of component
materials and parts are also required via our purchase order process to comply with our GSS and all applicable laws (which include those regarding
slavery and human trafficking).

(4) Intermal accountability standards and procedures for employees or contractors failing to meet company standards regarding slavery and
trafficking.

HanesBrands maintains internal accountability standards and procedures applicable to both employees and contractors who may fail to meet
company standards.

With regard to any issues identified in compliance audits of foreign manufacturers, a formal corrective action plan is developed with specific
timeframes in which to correct the problems. Our internal audit teams around the globe then visit these factori?s on an unannounced basis to
confirm adherence to the corrective action requirements. While we will typically provide 30 to 90 days for factories to correct minor issues, we
generally consider things such as forced/?prison labor, slavery, human trafficking, child labor, physical/sexual abuse, and bribery of an auditor to be
Zero-tolerance issues requiring immediate remediation or withdrawal from the facility, depending on the circumstances.

Those facilities that are ?disapproved? for zero-tolerance or other violations not remediated in a timely manner are noted on a companywide
?Disapproved List" that is routed to members of our senior management and sourcing teams. Such facilities remain ?disapproved" for a minimum of
one year. We also closely track facilities on our internal ?Alarm List" that are not progressing adequately in the corrective-action process. The ?Alarm
List" is also routed to appropriate members of our management team, so they can exert the appropriate influence needed to spur timely corrective
action.

(5) Training to company employees and management who have direct responsibility for supply chain management on issues of human
trafficking and slavery, particularly with respect fo mitigating within the supply chains of products.

We regularly conduct training on our GSS with our compliance and sourcing staffs, as well as with our factory base. We also continually train all of
our employees (55,000) on the requirements of our internal Global Code of Conduct. We believe that a thorough understanding by all relevant
individuals of the requirements of these standards Is critical to mitigating risks associated with such critical issues as forced labor, slavery, human
trafficking and child labor,

HanesBrands Assists Victims of Hurricanes Harvey, Irma and Maria

HanesBrands donated more than 2 million pieces of ait 7

READ STORY a
HANES
fi Ar Caf i)

Latin America employees participate in Hanes continuous education program

In 2009, the company created a continuing

READ STORY 

HanesBrands honored for CSR by two leading organizations

Two leading independent advocates of corporate

READ STORY 

 

Honduran CSR foundation honors HanesEBrands

Forthe sixth consecutive year, the Honduran

READ STORY fy

Delivering Medical Care to Employees and Families

Using specially designed mobile medical clinics,

READ STORY 

 

2018 Hanesbrands Inc. All rights
reserved.

California Transparency Act
Conflict Minerals

Global Anti-Bribery Program

Ha nesBrand s.com
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use

Site Map

HANES

Brands Inc
