MONICA VINADER

Signin Help


JEWELLERY PERSONALISE WORLD 

Monica Vinader Solutionhome Help Main Menu Terms, Conditions Privacy

Monica Vinader Modern Slavery Act
Statement

Jo

Introduction

Monica Vinader maintains a longstanding commitment toresponsible and sustainable business
practices, including respect for human rights. As amember of the Responsible Jewellery
Council(RJC), we have signed up to supply chain principles and associated safeguards
prescribed by the RJC, ncluding independent auditing of supply chains and the furthering of
ethicaland environmentally-sustainable operations.

We welcome the transparency that the Modern Slavery Act requires, and we are committed
to combating slavery, forced labour, human trafficking and other unlawful and/or unethical
practices throughout our business and our supply chains.

Organization's Structure and Business

Since its debut in 2008, Monica Vinader has developed an internationally-renowned luxury
jewellery brand, operating from office space in Norfolk and London, and boutiques globally as
wellas on-line. The Company has since won Brand ofthe Year at the UK Jewellery Awards,
and its products are now stocked by global luxury retailers including Harrods, Selfridges,
Liberty, Net-A-Porter and 

Our Supply Chain

One of our core values is respect for allthose with whom we work. Our supply chain
encompasses the provision of goods and services, both within and outside the ULK. We
engage with approximately suppliers of valuable metals, gemstones and diamonds used in
the manufacture of our products (?Product Suppliers?). Such Product Suppliers currently
operate factories operating in India, Thailand and Italy.

Our Commitment to Human Rights

Monica Vinader ts committed to ensuring there is no slavery, forced labour or human
trafficking occurring in our supply chains, or indeed any other part of our business.

We expect our employees to uphold the firm's core values of excellence, integrity and social
responsibility encompassed in our Responsible Business Policy and RJC Codes. |n addition, we
actively encourage employees toraise any behaviors or activities they believe to be unlawful
or unethical in any part of our business or operations.

We also expect allour suppliers to adhere to the highest legaland ethicalstandards, and to
operate free from discrimination, slavery, forced labour and human trafficking.

We aim to ensure our Product Suppliers in particular meet these high standards bya
combination of the following:

1. Supplier Social Compliance

Allsuppliers undergo an annualworkplace conditions assessment (WCA) audit, conducted by
Intertek. WCA is a social compliance audit which tracks and evaluates key areas such as labour,
wages, health and safety, management systems and environment conditions


Our suppliers are notified of any non-conformance concerns and performance is monitored
appropriately including follow up audits, to ensure that standards are met. Audits are
undertaken at least every 12 months.

2.5upplier Visibility

Consistent with standard anti-corruption/bribery practices, we believe firmly in the value of
due diligence, and the importance of getting to know our suppliers wellin order to build long-
termrelationships based on trust and integrity. To that end, we employ two full-time Quality
Assurance Project Managers working on the ground collaboratively with our manufacturers in
[India and Thailand]. We also schedule regular visits, at least quarterly, by our UK-based
Supplier Management team.

3. Contractual Clauses

Our supplier agreement further requires our suppliers to confirm that they have not been
investigated for, or convicted of, offences nvolving corruption of breach of human rights laws
and standards. In addition, suppliers are required to implement ther own transparent due
diligence programmes in order to ensure that none of ther sub-contractors or suppliers are
engaged directly or indirectly in slavery or human trafficking.

Next Steps

We will continue periodically to assess the issues of slavery and human trafficking within our

organization.
Signed

Gabriela Vinader, Managing Director

Did you findithelpful? ves NO

QO Enter your question here

Related Articles

Terms And Conditions

Website Terms Of Use

Third Party Cookies

How Do You Use My Information?
How Do You Use Cookies?
Privacy Notice

Monica Vinader Inc Terms of Sale
Monica Vinader Inc Privacy Policy

Give A Little Hint Gveaway Terms and
Conditions
