ENJOY AN EXTRA 30% OFF SALE STYLES. USE CODE

een

 

20% 7

Li. Lit

HOME SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY

California Transparency in Supply Chain Actand UK Modern Slavery Act

The Collected Group does not tolerate slavery, human trafficking, forced labor, and child labor in its supply chain. The Collected Group,
through its policies and compliance programs, requires that suppliers abide by standards to ensure that suppliers provide for a safe and
healthy working environment. Our suppliers are expected to adhere to the requirements in The Collected Group Social Responsibility 
Vendor and Factory Guide and The Collected Group Vendor Guide for Finished Goods, including compliance with allrelevant and applicable
laws and regulations of the country in which workers are employed.

Does The Collected Group make third-party verification(s) to evaluate and address human trafficking and slavery risks in product supply
chains?

The Collected Group evaluates and addresses human trafficking and slavery risks in its product supply chains. Suppliers sign off on ther
receipt of and compliance with The Collected Group Social Responsibility - Vendor and Factory Guide and The Collected Group Vendor
Guide for Finished Goods. In turn, the supplier agrees to The Collected Group making both announced and unannounced audits by third-
parties. Our departments that deal directly or indirectly with vendors, suppliers and sub-contractors are tasked with investigating internal or
third-party reports of this nature.

Does The Collected Group Retail LLC conducts audits of suppliers to evaluate supplier compliance with company standards for trafficking
and slavery?

The Collected Group audits its suppliers through the use of areputable independent third party auditor to check for compliance with
company standards for trafficking and slavery in compliance with SB657.

Does The Collected Group obtain certification from its direct suppliers that materials incorporated into its products comply with the laws
regarding slavery and human trafficking of the country in which they are doing business?

We require every vendor to sign and acknowledge The Collected Code of Conduct which, among other things, contains certifications that
the materials incorporated into goods provided to the company comply with the laws regarding slavery and human trafficking.

Does The Collected Group maintain internal accountability standards and procedures for employees or contractors failing to meet company
standards regarding slavery and trafficking?

The Collected Group compliance program is reviewed annually or more frequently as needed. We keep records of audit results and follow up
on corrective action to ensure compliance. Our compliance team is in regular communication with sourcing, including reporting severe issues
with a supplier's compliance level We have zero tolerance for use of forced labor, including slavery and human trafficking in our supply chain,

and if identified, that supplier would be subject to disciplinary actions including immediate remediation and possible termination of business.

Does The Collected Group provide its company employees and management, who have direct responsibility for supply chain management,
with training on mitigating the risks of slavery and trafficking in supply chains?

We provide internal training and education to employees and management who are directly responsible for supply chain management,
including the definition and identification of slavery, human trafficking, debt bondage, forced labor, and child labor and how to respond
appropriately.

O1 ABOUT

O2 CUSTOMER CARE
O03 TRACK YOUR ORDER
O04 

O05 LooKBooK

OG CAREERS

SIGN UP AND RECEIVE 15% OFF YOUR FIRST 
OT PRIVACY POLICY

 

O8 TERMS OF USE

 

 

09 sociaAL

 

RESPONSIBILITY 
VALID ON FULL PRICE MERCHANDISE ONLY.

oS 

?2015 RER, LLC AN AFFILIATE OF THE COLLECTED GROUP RETAIL, LLE
