   

Sale now on-? shirts from ?19.95

Login Myaccount Help& Contact OurStores
irts Ties Suits Shoes Trousers Knitwear Jackets&coats more Bag 
Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement
Charles Limited is committed to acting responsiby in allour business practices through making sound
decisions whichtake social, economic andenvironmentalfactors into account. We want to be part of a socially and
me environmentally responsible supply chain, sourcing and delivering worldwide and choosing business partners who
share our company values andtargets.
count 
At Charles our values underpin everything we do. People matter, the wellbeing of our employees is crucially
mvays important to us and we continue to build longterm business partnerships and long lasting relationships with our
supply chain based on fundamental principles of our Ethical Trading Policy.
ement The Charles Ethical Trading Policy outlines the commitments we make andthe processes we require from
allour product suppliers to demonstrate compliance and good practices throughthe supply chain. Our suppliers are
alicy requiredto submit an annual inde pendent audit to confirm manufacturing standards, compliance and good working
practises are alignedto our Ethical Trading Policy. Our Technicaland Buying teams regularly visit the factories and
require updates on worker engagement programmes, sustainability and reviews of any corrective action plans.
Informed by the best available information, we choose to workwith suppliers who demonstrate ethical practices
above what would be consideredthe minimum.
The Charles Ethical Trading Policy is based onthe UK Ethical Trading Initiative (ETI) base code and our
policies are based on International Labour Organisation (ILO) standards. This includes the key principles:-
Freedomof Employment
The right to collective bargaining and freedomof association are respected
Safe and hygienic working conditions
Child labour is not acceptable
Allworkers shallbe paid a lwing wage
Working hours are not excessive
Discrimination shallnot be practised
Regular Employment is provided
No harshor inhumane treatment is allowed
Charles has a zero tolerance approachto modern slavery and human trafficking, which is reflected in our
ditions policies and controls on Ethical Trading throughout our product supply chain. With over 40 product suppliers based
in 16 countries, some of whom we have been working with for more than lS years, we have established strong
business partnerships. We willcontinue to nurture these relationships and remain true to our values.
During 2017 we began a communication process with over 100 of our key "non-product" suppliers. These suppliers
provide us with services or "goods not for resale". The suppliers recetveda copy of our Ethical Trading Policy to
understand whether they were aware of, andaddressing the risks, of modern slavery. We willcontinue this dialogue
as part of oursupplier partnerships, andextendto more of oursmaler"non-product" suppliers throughthe course
of the next year.
During 2018 we willintroduce training on Charles Ethicaland EnvironmentalSourcing Policies (incuding
the issues surrounding Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking) to our newstarters Company Induction
programme. We willalso ensure that awareness training is deliveredto allcurrent employees.
Ni cholon Whooles
Nick Wheeler
Founder, Charles Limited
January 2018
iol Style Hints Tips Sizing Guides Our Stores Or ase Siesta eel stele

    
    

 

nd updates by

Shirts Ltd.

ct Cavios sell ciateiortireitl

Weaccept: 

 

me bergen

SUBMIT

TALOGUE

Terms conditions Cooke policy Povacy notice Modem slavery statement Tax strategy Student discount

Lane, London SEH 20G - Registered No. 2914928 - UK Vat No. 821 1491 60 - info@ctshitts.co.uk

CHANGE COUNTRY -

Trusted

Ata ee 

Aish sal)

 
