CALIFORNIA TRANSPARENCY

SUPPLY CHAINS ACT OF 2010

Glen Raven believes that human trafficking and slavery violate the most basic rights of
human beings and has zero tolerance for these practices. In accordance with the
California Transparency in Supply Chains Act of 2010, we support:

Careers News

Language: English



Evaluation and verification of risks of human trafficking and slavery in product supply chains. Glen Raven
prohibits human trafficking and slavery by Glen Raven and all of our suppliers. We will audit our suppliers
to ensure that our supply chain conforms to this prohibition and may seek additional verification where
warranted. These audits and verifications are not performed by third parties.
Audits of suppliers. While Glen Raven has inspected some suppliers with respect to the manner in which
they conduct business, we have not yet audited all suppliers regarding slavery and human tratticking
topics. Glen Raven employees have conducted on-site visits to our major suppliers. If we receive credible
information indicating slavery or human trafficking at a supplier, we will take immediate appropriate
action. Glen Raven will be developing a system for determining the necessity of on-site audits and trusted
supplier recognition as we choose.
Certification requirements for direct suppliers. Glen Raven will require suppliers to certify that their
compliance with the laws regarding slavery and human trafficking of the countries in which they are doing
USINESS.
Internal accountability standards and procedures. Glen Raven maintains an employee Code of Conduct
prohibiting illegal and unethical behavior. We are adopting standards and procedures to deal
SE with employees and contractors failing to meet our standards regarding slavery and
Tranicking.
Employee Training. We are developing a training program to educate Glen Raven employees directly
responsible for supply chain management on detecting and reporting human trafficking and slavery and
mitigating risks within our supply chains.

Magazine Locations Contact Us Privacy Policy

 
