UNITED KINGDOM MODERN SLAVERY
ACT - SLAVERY AND HUMAN
TRAFFICKING STATEMENT

From starting as a textile mill in North Carolina in 1880, to becoming a multinational
company that focuses on enhancing life for global consumers through innovative
fabric-based, market-based solutions, Glen Raven has prided itself on conducting
business with integrity for over 135 years. Glen Raven believes that human trafficking
and slavery violate the most basic rights of human beings and has zero tolerance for
these practices. Consistent with this belief, Glen Raven has taken the following steps:

Glen Raven's Code of Conduct, which is applicable to all company employees, prohibits all forms of
human trafficking and slavery. During the past year, the Code of Conduct was provided to all new Glen
Raven employees.

Glen Raven's Supplier Code of Conduct prohibits its suppliers from engaging in any form of human
trafficking or slavery. In addition, suppliers are prohibited from purchasing materials or services trom
companies that use forced or slave labor. The company?s suppliers must also be able to certify that
materials included in their products comply with the slavery and human trafficking laws in the countries in
which they do business. During the past year, the Supplier Code of Conduct was made available to each
new supplier via its publication on Glen pore eres

Although Glen Raven has not audited all of its suppliers with regard to slavery and human trafticking, the
company has undertaken assessments of the business operations of certain suppliers. As part of the
company?s general oversight of its supply chain, Glen Raven employees conducted on-site visits to many of
the company?s major suppliers during the past year. If Glen Raven employees have reason to believe a
supplier is engaged in human trafficking or the use of slave labor, including if the company receives
credible information trom third parties, the company will take immediate appropriate action.

During the past year, Glen Raven has developed a new training system for its employees. The system will
enable targeted trainings of Glen Raven employees directly responsible for supply chain management on
detecting and reporting human trafficking and slavery and on mitigating risks within the company?s supply
chain.

Careers News Magazine Locations Contact Us Privacy Policy

Language: English Espano

oD

 
