




                                        
       California Transparency in Supply Chains Act Disclosure Statement
                                        
As of January 1, 2012, California’s Civil Code section 1714.43 (California
Transparency in Supply Chains Act of 2010) requires manufacturers and retailers
to provide website information concerning their efforts to address the issues
of forced labor, slavery, and human trafficking within the supply chain.  The
purpose is to allow consumers to make better and more informed decisions about
the products they buy and the companies they support.  To this end, the law
directs Gear For Sports to inform the public as to how we have addressed the
following issues:
(1) Verification of product supply chains to evaluate and address risks of
human trafficking and slavery. The disclosure shall specify if the verification
was not conducted by a third party.
 
(2) Audits of suppliers to evaluate supplier compliance with company standards
for trafficking and slavery in supply chains.  The disclosure shall specify if
the verification was not an independent, unannounced audit.
 
(3) Certification by direct suppliers that materials incorporated into the
product comply with the laws regarding slavery and human trafficking of the
country or countries in which they are doing business.
 
(4) Internal accountability standards and procedures for employees or
contractors failing to meet company standards regarding slavery and
trafficking.
 
(5) Training to company employees and management who have direct responsibility
for supply chain management on issues of human trafficking and slavery,
particularly with respect to mitigating risks within the supply chains of
products.
 
This webpage is intended to fulfill these requirements through a full
description of our processes set forth below.
 
Background: Gear For Sports Approach to Social Compliance and Labor Standards:
 
Gear For Sports is proud to have implemented a rigorous set of supplier
standards for well over a decade.  Our Code of Conduct is based heavily on
international labor and human rights standards.  We believe that all workers at
our owned and supplier factories have the right to freely choose employment and
to freely associate and collectively bargain.  Our Code of Conduct specifically
prohibits “involuntary or forced labor including forced prison labor,
indentured labor or bonded labor of any type.”
 
We are also a fully accredited member of the Fair Labor Association (FLA), an
internationally recognized non-governmental organization ("NGO") whose goal is
to advance labor rights globally and to help industry appropriately address a
range of complex issues - including the eradication of forced and slave labor
across the supply chain.  Work with the FLA, and other global NGO's and
organizations, has proven valuable in our efforts to ensure that all of our
suppliers are compliant with our own Code of Conduct and relevant international
norms. 
 
Gear For Sports realizes that forced labor and human trafficking can occur in
many forms - such as child labor, workplace harassment, workplace abuse, and
workplace discrimination.  Therefore, our processes (described below) were
created in an effort to eradicate such unethical practices in all its variants.
 
CA Transparency in Supply Chains Act Statements
 
if !supportLists]>(1)      endif]>Verification of product supply chains to
evaluate and address risks of human trafficking and slavery.
 
Gear For Sports regularly performs geographic evaluations of its supply chain
to evaluate the risk of non-compliance in slavery, human trafficking and other
human rights and labor issues.  This analysis is not conducted by a third-
party.   Our further verification efforts are described in detail below.
 
(2) Audits of suppliers to evaluate supplier compliance with company standards
for trafficking and slavery in supply chains. 
 
Gear For Sports has worked aggressively for many years to audit suppliers to
exclude these types of labor and human rights abuses from our supply chain. 
The intensity and frequency of these audits vary based on our geographical risk
evaluations and also on the historical performance of a given factory in our
internal and external audits.
 
Our auditing process calls for all of our owned facilities outside of the
United States and our significant finished goods contractors to be certified by
the Worldwide Responsible Accredited Production program ("WRAP").  The WRAP
process is extremely rigorous and is described fully at http://
www.wrapcompliance.org/   The WRAP certification includes both announced and
unannounced independent audits.
 
For those finished goods contractors that are not WRAP-certified, an
independent third-party audit team from an internationally recognized audit
firm conducts a comprehensive factory assessment.  Thereafter, the audit
process is repeated annually.  These independent, third-party audits include an
initial management interview; facility and dormitory (if applicable) tours;
payroll analysis; confidential employee interviews that cover such issues as
working hours, payment practices, freedom of association, forced labor, child
labor and disciplinary practices; and a closing meeting with management.
 
(3) Certification by direct suppliers that materials incorporated into the
product comply with the laws regarding slavery and human trafficking of the
country or countries in which they are doing business.
 
Our finished-goods suppliers are required to sign a lengthy and comprehensive
agreement which, among other things, requires them to comply with all
applicable laws (which include those regarding slavery and human trafficking)
and our Code of Conduct (described above). 
 
 
(4) Internal accountability standards and procedures for employees or
contractors failing to meet company standards regarding slavery and
trafficking.
 
Gear For Sports does maintain internal accountability standards and procedures
applicable to both employees and contractors who may fail to meet company
standards. 
 
With regard to any issues identified in compliance audits of foreign
manufacturers, a formal corrective action plan is developed with specific
timeframes in which to correct the problems.  Our internal audit teams around
the globe then visit these factories on an unannounced basis to confirm
adherence to the corrective action requirements.  While we will typically
provide 30-90 days for factories to correct minor issues, we generally consider
things such as forced/prison labor, slavery, human trafficking, child labor,
physical/sexual abuse, and bribery of an auditor to be zero-tolerance issues
requiring immediate remediation or withdrawal from the facility - depending on
the circumstances. 
 
Those facilities that are “disapproved” for zero tolerance or other violations
not remediated in a timely manner are noted on a company-wide “Disapproved
List” that is routed to members of our senior management and sourcing teams. 
Such facilities remain “disapproved” for a minimum of one year.  We also
closely track facilities on our internal “Alarm List” that are not progressing
adequately in the corrective action process.  The “Alarm List” is also routed
to appropriate members of our management team, so they can exert the
appropriate influence needed to spur timely corrective action.
 
(5) Training to company employees and management who have direct responsibility
for supply chain management on issues of human trafficking and slavery,
particularly with respect to mitigating risks within the supply chains of
products.
 
We regularly conduct training on our Code of Conduct with our compliance and
sourcing staffs, as well as with our factory base.  We also continually train
all of our employees on the requirements of our internal Global Code of
Conduct. We believe that a thorough understanding by all relevant individuals
of the requirements of these standards is critical to mitigating risks
associated with such critical issues as forced labor, slavery, human
trafficking and child labor.  
 
 
