EST 1898 ey
TM-LEWIN 9 Banc

STORES ACCOUNT

JERMYN ST. LONDON



  
 
 

 

NEW SHIRTS SUITS OUTERWEAR CLOTHING TIES ACCESSORIES WOMEN FERS
REGISTER

 

   

  

el ee) SALE - FURTHER REDUCTIONS

Modern Slavery Statement

Modern Slavery Statement

This statement relates to the financial year from March 2017 to February 2018.

A successful global clothing retailer, at T.M.Lewin we run our business responsibly. We are committed to understanding modern slavery risks across
the organisation and to ensuring that there is no modern slavery in our business or our supply chain. We work hard to respect the human rights of

everyone we work with and to maintain the highest ethical standards.

Founded in 1896 when Thomas Mayes Lewin ?7T.M.Lewin) opened his first shop in Jermyn Street in London, our company has a long history. T.M.Lewin

now has just under 100 stores in the UK, with new stores opening in countries across the world.

We trade in Europe, Australia, South East Asia, US and Africa and our suppliers are based in Europe and across Asia. T.M.Lewin has a responsibility to

be alert to and respond to risks associated with modern slavery in these locations.

We take this responsibility seriously, ensuring all factories and suppliers that we work with are audited by an independent third party. These audits
comply with the international industry standards set by the International Labour Organization (ILO). The main aims of the ILO are to promote rights at
work, encourage decent employment opportunities, enhance social protection and strengthen dialogue on work-related issues, including Modern

slavery.

All new suppliers are rigorously checked at T.M.Lewin. They are required to produce an independent audit report covering key areas such as Health
and Safety, working hours and practices and child labour which comply with ILO standards. Where no report exists, T.M.Lewin will commission an
independent third party audit before commencing work with the supplier. All suppliers must agree to T.M.Lewin?s comprehensive audit programme as

part of the terms and conditions agreement to work with T.M.Lewin.

Audit programmes highlight good working practices as well as areas of concern. T.M.Lewin investigates all areas of non-compliance with suppliers,
working with them to agree and deliver immediate action to address all issues. We will terminate a supplier agreement where non-compliance is not

rectified.

We are committed to maintaining a high level of understanding of and managing the risks of modern slavery in our supply chain and across the wider

T.M.Lewin business. This statement has been approved by the Board of Directors at T.M.Lewin.

Geoff Quinn - Chief Executive Officer, T.M.Lewin

009d

JOIN OUR MAILING LIST

iret JOIN

CUSTOMER SERVICES ABOUT OUR PRODUCTS CONTACT US

 

Help About Us Men's Shirts Q, +44 845 489

Delivery Information Modern Slavery Size Guides 1898

Statement 
Check Order bd 

(Careers
Affiliates
Wholesale

Student
Discount

lE amazon
=?atwes 
RESS payments

Secure shopping guaranteed VISA Epes PF Pay?!

se United Kingdom GBP) 

T.M.Lewin Sons Limited Privacy Policy Cookie Use Terms Conditions site Map
2017
