Ea ees ere ee

Ce mete CE ek ee . By using our

 

VICTORIA BECKHAM LIMITED
Moder Slavery Act Transparency Statement

This statement is made on behalf of Victoria Beckham Limited [for the purposes of this
statement We are publishing this statement under the Modern Slavery Act 2015 to
demonstrate our commitment to ensuring that our business and supply chain reflects our values
and respect for human rights.

At VBL, we value human rights and dignity and are committed to maintaining and improving
practices fo combat modem slavery and human trafficking throughout our business. We
encourage our suppliers to share our commitment to providing an ethical work environment.

Qur organisational structure, our business, and our supply chains

VBL is luxury fashion company which has its registered office in London. We design,
manufacture and sell high fashion, quality garments, shoes and accessories. Since launching
in 2006, the Victoria Beckham fashion brand has developed a distinctive and modern
language of clothing. There ore five Victoria Beckham lines including Ready to Wear, Victoria
Victoria Beckham, Accessories, Shoes and Eyewear. These lines are stocked in over 400
stores in over 50 countries internationally, and they showcase only the finest craftsmanship
and materials.

Qur staff

One of VBL's overriding objectives is to conduct all of its business in an honest and ethical

manner. We endeavour to maintain a fair and ethical workplace for all of our staff. It is an

essential part of this that all forms of forced labour or human trafficking are prohibited and
that they have no place in our business.

Similarly, compliance with all employment laws is a fundamental objective of VBL and our
employee handbook sets out strict rules and policies on anti-corruption, bribery, equal
opportunities and discrimination.

Our whistleblowing policy invites employees to bring to our attention any illegal or improper
behaviour and any breach of the Company's own policies. The whistleblowing policy
encourages statt to raise any concerns about our supply chain management without fear of
retribution.

Our supply chains

The key suppliers and partners in our supply chain supply fabrics and materials as well as
manufacturing the clothes and other garments that VBL designs. Our methods of engaging
with suppliers ensure that we are confident that we remain fully compliant with the law at all
times. We do remain constantly vigilant and periodically monitor risks at all levels of the
supply chain.

Our due diligence processes

We expect all of our contractors, suppliers and other business partners to uphold the same
high standards as we do, by ensuring that all employees and workers are treated with dignity
and respect in a fair and ethical environment.

Our employees are subject to right to work checks and we continue to work with our
contractors to ensure that they comply with relevant employment laws including minimum
wage requirements and right to work rules.

We work with our retail partners across the world to provide information on our own
compliance with applicable ethical standards as well as that of our suppliers and
manufacturers. As port of these partnerships, we have used various audit platforms including
Sedex which is a collaborative platform for sharing responsible sourcing data on supply
chains. Having found Sedex particularly useful for ensuring thorough compliance checks are
camied out, now adopting Sedex to use as part of its own infernal monitoring processes
[see "Looking aheca" below).

Assessing and managing risk

VBL sources goods and services from the United Kingdom, Italy, Portugal, Turkey, China,
india, Romania, Poland, Greece, Mauritius, Korea and Thailand. When selecting suppliers,
we consider and scrutinise the reputation and integrity of ine companies before deciding
whether we want to work with them. Audits are carried out as part of the due diligence
process before engaging companies. We regularly visit our production and supplier sites and
exercise our right to carry out inspections and audits where appropriate.

We work fo identify, assess, and monitor any potential areas of risk in relation to our business

and supply chains. This includes considering the type of services being carried out, the nature

of what is being supplied and the location fram where it is being supplied. We will continue to

look to manage any risks identified and work with our suppliers and manufacturers to uphold
ethical standards.

Training

We consider it vital that our employees and workers are aware of the issues surrounding
modern slavery and support our values. Our legal team is aware of requirements of the
Modern Slavery Act. Other key stakeholders in the business are experienced in carrying out
relevant due diligence checks on our supply chain, and they continue to train other members
of staff in this area.

We intend to train relevant personnel fo recognise environment, health, safety, and
labour//worker concems, including issues relating to slavery, human trafficking and forced
labour, and to report and investigate all suspicions of improper conduct at all suppliers
globally.

Looking ahead Subscribe to receive notifications,
updates and exclusive news.

We continue to monitor and develop our practices in respect of comba
human trafficking, particularly focusing on areas of the supply chain that 
risk of human trafficking or forced labour.

 

 

 

Because VBL is committed to sourcing and designing only the highest que

processes will continue to evolve and improve. We are strengthening our 

chain management by adopting a well-established audit system, Sedex,

VBL and its suppliers to verify that its supply chain operates in a legally coi
manner.

 

 

 

 

 

VBL is adding to existing protections in place by finalising new supplier
business. The new terms require that suppliers agree that they will camp!
statutory and regulatory requirements. Additionally, suppliers are req
specifically that their services will be provided with due consideration 

environment.
Subscribe

This statement is made pursuant to section 54[1) of the UK Modern Slave
constitutes VBL's slavery and human trafficking statement for the financia
December 2016.

 

 

 

United Kingdom 

 

 

 

 

 

Coreers Subscribe Contact Tarms of Use Store Locator
