shortlist Request trade log-in Trade login

ENTER SEARCH CLICK FORALL 9

BROWSE CATALOGUE THEMES BESTSELLERS WHERE TOBUY NEWS

a 7 ale 
inspiring

Tar le
of

 

Modern Slavery Statement

Introduction

This statement sets out the actions of Rubie?s Group to understand all potential modern
Slavery risks related to its business and to put in place steps that are aimed at ensuring that
there is no slavery or human trafficking in its own business and its supply chain. This

statement relates to actions and activities during the financial year 1? July 2016 30?" June
2017.

As a leading supplier of our industry sector, the company recognises that it .has a
responsibility to take a robust approach to slavery and human trafficking.

The company is absolutely committed to preventing slavery and human trafficking in its

corporate activities, and to ensuring that its supply chain is free from slavery and human
trafficking.

Organisational structure and supply chain

This statement covers all the activities of the Rubie?s Group, but ?focuses on those
companies within the group that carry out business in the UK, namely Rubie's Masquerade
Company (UK) Limited (Company No. 03508897).

Rubies Masquerade Company (UK) Limited is the largest subsidiary of Rubie?s Costume
Company Inc. based out of New York state, North America and a privately owned business.
The business's core competency is designing, manufacturing and distributing fancy dress
costumes and accessories.

The group?s key supply chain relates to the manufacture and supply of costumes. The
procurement of such orders for Rubie?s UK is handled by Rubie?s Hong Kong office. The
Hong Kong office liaises on a daily basis with Rubie?s supply base predominately based in
China and our UK head office.

High-risk activities

Rubie?s principle risks relate to its manufacturing supply chain. The group?s practices and
policies have been prepared on the basis of the current supply chain and the countries in
which the group operates. These practices will be reassessed if the group?s supply chain
were to change to include higher risk counties.

Responsibility

Responsibility for the organisation's anti-slavery initiatives is as follows:

Policies: Central HR Department, approved by the UK Commercial Director

Risk assessments: These are carried out as required by the managers responsible for
the group's supply chain.

Investigations/due diligence: Our HR team and Factory Compliance Manager are
responsible for investigations and due diligence as and when required where there
are known or suspected instances of slavery and human trafficking.

Training: This statement is available to all companies and suppliers and in house
training is due to be implemented as explained below.

Relevant policies

The group operates a range of policies and procedures, across the various companies, to
support its commitment to ensure that there is no modern slavery or human trafficking in its
supply chain. These include:

Whistleblowing policy/Bribery policy The group encourages all its workers,
customers and other business partners to report any concerns related to the direct
activities, or the supply chains of, the organisation. This includes any circumstances
that may give rise to an enhanced risk of slavery or human trafficking. The
whistleblowing procedure is designed to make it easy for workers to make
disclosures, without fear of retaliation.

Employee code of conduct The code makes clear to employees the actions and
behaviour expected of them when representing the organisation, including when
operating abroad and managing its supply chain.

Rubie?s Supplier/Procurement code of conduct ensures that its suppliers adhere to
the highest standards of ethics. Suppliers are required to demonstrate that they
provide safe working conditions, treat workers with dignity and respect, and act
ethically and within the law in their use of labour.

Due diligence

The group undertakes due diligence when considering taking on new suppliers and
periodically reviews its existing suppliers. The group's due diligence and reviews include:

the commencement of mapping the supply chain broadly to assess particular
product or geographical risks of modern slavery and human trafficking;

evaluating the modern slavery and human trafficking risks of each new supplier for
UK developed product, including carrying out an ethical audit before any orders are
placed:

membership of SEDEX and conducting a SEDEX member's ethical audit (SMETA)
annually on all our primary manufacturing sites in China for UK developed product;

visiting all primary manufacturing routes for UK developed product before purchase
orders are placed to ensure sufficient management and quality systems;

monitoring the capacity of each factory for UK developed product to help ensure
that the number of hours worked is reasonable and aligns to any local government
regulations;

taking steps to improve substandard suppliers? practices, including providing advice
to suppliers and requiring them to implement action plans;

invoking sanctions against suppliers that fail to improve their performance in line

with an action plan or seriously violate our supplier code of conduct, including the
termination of the business relationship.

Performance indicators

The organisation has reviewed its key performance indicators in light of the introduction of
the Modern Slavery Act 2015. As a result, the organisation requires:

all members of staff who carry out business in the UK, and who are involved in the
supply chain management and/or the monitoring of group?s practices, to have
completed training on modern slavery;

reviewing its existing supply chains annually, whereby the organisation evaluates all
existing suppliers; and

introduction of a consolidated Modern Slavery Policy for all companies that conduct
business in the UK.

Awareness-raising programme

The organisation has raised awareness of modern slavery issues by circulating a series of
emails to staff who conduct business in the UK.

The emails explain to staff:

the basic principles of the Modern Slavery Act 2015;
how employers can identify and prevent slavery and human trafficking;

what employees can do to flag up potential slavery or human trafficking issues to the
relevant parties within the organisation; and

what external help is available, for example through the Modern Slavery Helpline.

Director approval

This statement is made pursuant to section 54(1) of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and
constitutes the slavery and human trafficking statement for the above listed companies for
the financial year ending 30" June 2017. This statement has been approved by the relevant
company?s directors, who will review and update it annually.

fie
Director's signature (aXe

Mir Chris Isitt:



UK Commercial Director's signature

Mr David Wootliff:

CAA

Date

(J Fobwiuee

Vi 0)0 alee a Via he Film TV STs ma ecole BCT Rubie?s House ete een eliot

Request Trade Log-In TRADEMARKS Seen ee ee Padainirondly dU NOTICE: we do not
een ale) Me A ates ngels Fairies a
=e meni tsi eme hor nyse sell products directly.
. . Boys Costumes Siw Orellit ya at reap Reig bey Visi ied
Bestselling Lines Rubie's News ti ial OX10 9FE Visit 0

ae 7 (ua eom rere li lel aa sae @e dO lteter stockist details
COUNTERFEIT About Rubie's Men eT Tesi sla ernie stockist details.
POLICY

Additions 2017

 

TM 2015 Rubie's Masquerade Co., UK Ltd. All Rights Reserved. Website by Accord
