RICHEMONT Moe Be

About Richemont Investor Relations Press Centre Our Businesses Careers Corporate Social Responsibility

 

Sp Print ?54 Bookmark
Human rights and labour standards in the supply chain

Context

Adopting fair and ethical labour practices and promoting human rights is vital for society as well as for Richemont?s reputation and on-going success.
We require our business partners to adhere to the high standards we set ourselves.

Our approach

In common with accepted good practices, Richemont's Supplier Code of Conduct includes an endorsement of International Labour Organisation
Conventions, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and other internationally recognised labour practice standards. It is also aligned with the UK
Modern Slavery Act.

The Code covers the following areas:

Healthy and safe working conditions providing a healthy and safe working environment in accordance with applicable laws and regulations;
Wages and working hours complying with local legislation on minimum wages, working hours and employee benefits;

Freedom of association allowing workers to associate with lawful and peaceful workers? associations:

No discrimination not subjecting people to discrimination based on factors including ethnicity, age, religion and sexual orientation, amongst
others;

No child labour not employing people under the age of 15 or younger than the age for completing compulsory education;
No forced employment not using forced labour and not using employment where terms are not voluntary;

No disciplinary treatment not subjecting people to harassment, violence or intimidation:

Responsible environmental management fully complying with local legislation, industry regulations and the Richemont Environmental Code of
Conduct.

The Maisons have developed their sourcing strategies to take into account the risks of suppliers, or their supplier's supplier, failing to meet the Group's
expectations. This is particularly the case for child labour and forced labour risks, which are assessed as part of the supplier qualification process.
Supplier-screening data are not disclosed. The audit of suppliers is described elsewhere in this report.

Richemont is a participant in the UN Global Compact and supports its Ten Principles.

 

Slavery human trafficking - Corporate Disclosure

The California Transparency in Supply Chains Act of 2010 and the United Kingdom Modem Slavery Act 2015 require certain businesses to provide
information regarding their efforts to address the issue of slavery and human trafficking, thereby allowing consumers to make better, more informed
choices regarding the products they buy and the companies they choose to support.

Richemont is opposed to slavery and human trafficking and desires its supply chain to be free of these scourges.

Richemont and its Maisons have developed and disseminated the Group Supplier Code of Conduct, which sets out our approach in this area and
provides guidance to our suppliers and business partners regarding responsible sourcing. The Code of Conduct includes an endorsement of the
Intemational Labour Organisation Conventions and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Among other issues, the Code of Conduct specifically
forbids the use of forced or involuntary labour of any kind, including employment of people under the age of 15 or before they have completed
compulsory education. The Code of Conduct includes an Acknowledgment of Terms that requires suppliers to: accept and agree to the Code?s principles;
to report on the individual responsible for the suppliers compliance; the procedures in place to fulfil the Code?s requirements; discrepancies between the
supplier's operations and the Code; and any similar policy used by the supplier.

Richemont also monitors on-going compliance and adherence of suppliers to its standards related to slavery and human trafficking. In particular, the
Maisons regularly conduct third-party audits of their suppliers. During 2016/17, some 200 extemal supplier audits were carried out on behalf of
Richemont's Maisons. Richemont does not record the percentage of ?surprise? audits or disclose the specific results of its audits. The audits may be
announced or unannounced. Where concerns related to the Supplier Code of Conduct have been identified, Richemont has held its suppliers
accountable through dialogue and follow-up audits.

Through its involvement in the Responsible Jewellery Council (AJC). Richemont also seeks to ensure compliance with the RJC's standards relating to
slavery and human trafficking. The RJC's certification process is rigorous, including independent, third-party audits regarding the member's compliance
with human rights standards. The RJC has grown to include 979 corporate members at 31 March 2017. from miners to retailers. The 1/7 Richemont
Maisons and independent manufacturing entities which are certified members of the AJC have been audited by an accredited third-party to verify
compliance with the RJC's Code of Practices, thereby obtaining RJC certification. Many of Richemonts suppliers are also members of the RUC and
complete their own RJC certification. Additional infonmation on the RUC may be obtained here.

Richemont and its Maisons have taken specific steps to increase employee awareness and compliance regarding slavery and human trafficking issues.
Richemont's Corporate Social Responsibility Guidelines, which articulate the standards Richemont expects its managers, employees and suppliers to
uphold, specifically articulate Richemont's zero-tolerance policy regarding forced labour. Richemont?s Maisons have undertaken specific training
programmes regarding supply chain issues.

For more information on Richemont'?s commitment to eradicate and prevent Slavery and trafficking in its supply chains, visit the Supply Chain
Management page.

Richemont 2017 Gur Maisons is a trade mark of Richemont Home FAQ Sitemap Credits Terms and Conditions
