Gildan.com GRI Content Index Careers ContactUs Fr Es

GILDAN

Genuine Responsibility?

f& COMPANY PEOPLE ENVIRONMENT COMMUNITY PRODUCT

     
   

 

    
    

a


a
aX

PEOPLE

MODERN SLAVERY AND HUMAN
See TRAFFICKING

Modern Slavery and
Human lrafficking

WORKING CONDITIONS 2016 Statement on Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking

re 
Lal eel toe

The California Transparency in Supply Chain Act of 2010, and the UK Modern Slavery Act of 2015 require certain
manufacturers and retailers of goods to be transparent about efforts undertaken to identify and eradicate modern

Sle slavery and human trafficking from their supply chains or their own operations.

PROGRAMS

Gildan is committed to maintaining high ethical standards in all of our operations and business practices
worldwide, and as such, does not tolerate modern slavery or human trafficking in any form. We adhere to the
codes set forth by the Fair Labour Association and the Worldwide Responsible Accredited Production
which include strict provisions with regards to forced and child labour such as human trafficking and
slavery.

as

This commitment is further demonstrated by the fact that, in 2007, Gildan became the first vertically-integrated 7
apparel manufacturer to have its social compliance program accredited by the FLA, and since 2013, Gildan has

been included in the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index World") where it currently remains the only

North American company to be named under the Textiles, Apparel and Luxury Goods sector. Gildan is also

pleased this year to have been included for the first time in the DJSI North American Index. The annual 

review is based on a thorough analysis which covers, among others, issues such as supply chain standards and
labour practices.

In June, World Vision Canada issued a report regarding child and forced labour in the supply chain of Canadian
consumer products. The report assessed Canadian companies over a number of categories including public
commitment, supplier code of conduct, training, auditing, audit results, grievance remedy and standalone
disclosure. Gildan was highlighted as a best practice in the textile and apparel sector and in fact received the
best rating amongst all the Canadian companies in the various industries assessed by World Vision Canada. The
report identifies Gildan as one of the few companies leading the way towards comprehensive and transparent
reporting. This statement provides an overview of the actions Gildan has taken to prevent modern slavery and
human trafficking in its supply chain and its own operations.

Our business and supply chain

Gildan owns and operates vertically-integrated, large-scale manufacturing facilities which are primarily located in
Central America, the Caribbean Basin, North America, and Bangladesh. These facilities are strategically located
to efficiently service the quick replenishment needs of Gildan?s customers in the printwear and retail markets. With
over 48,000 employees worldwide Gildan operates with a strong commitment to industry-leading labour and
environmental practices throughout its supply chain in accordance with its comprehensive corporate social
responsibility program embedded in the Company's long-term business strategy.

The vast majority of our products are manufactured in our own facilities. While we produce internally the majority
of the products we sell, we also have sourcing capabilities which represent less than 20% of our total production

in terms of volume. We also use third party sewing contractors, although to a lesser extent, to satisfy some of our
sewing requirements.

Our policies addressing slavery and human trafficking

Qur comprehensive group-wide Code of Ethics, which is applicable to all Gildan directors, officers and employees
worldwide, sets out the Company's standards of integrity and expectations for ethical behaviour. It serves as an
affirmation of our strong commitment to fair labour practices in the workplace, as a framework in guiding the
Company's operations and business practices throughout the world and as a guide to help employees make
decisions that are consistent with Gildan?s core values and principles.

 

In addition to our Code of Ethics, Gildan has also implemented a Code of Conduct, which affirms in further details
our position on a wide range of labour practices and directs activities at each of our operating locations. Our Code
of Conduct is based on the International Labour Organization Conventions and encompasses elements set forth
by the Fair Labor Association as well as best practices commonly agreed upon in the area of corporate
social responsibility. Qur Code of Conduct explicitly states that ?Gildan and its business partners will not use
forced labour, including prison labour, indentured labour, bonded labour or any other form of forced labour.?

Furthermore, the labour standards set forth in our Code of Conduct are complemented by specific procedures and
practical requirements explained in Gildan's Sustainable Social and Environmental Compliance Guidebook, which
is provided to all our manufacturing contractors.

Finally, our whistleblowing policy encourages our employees to report any real or suspected misconduct, which
extends to concerns relating to human rights violations like slavery and human trafficking. All reports received
through the various reporting channels available to our employees including our Ethics and Integrity Hotline 
are fully investigated and appropriate remedial actions taken.

Verification of product supply chain to evaluate and address risks of human trafficking and slavery

Gildan is committed to sourcing products and raw materials from suppliers that engage in responsible practices.
The Company identifies and assesses potential risks in its supply chain by conducting a due diligence review of
potential business partners prior to entering into sourcing or major supply agreements. Such evaluation starts by
a consideration of inherent and potential risks based on geographical location and industry type and includes,
when appropriate, questionnaires and local verifications. In some instances, Gildan will mandate a third party
audit service provider to conduct these verifications on its behalf.

Our due diligence helps guide our business decisions and ensures that all facilities manufacturing our products
comply with our Code of Conduct, as well as local and international laws. Where there is a concern of potential
human rights infringements such as slavery or human trafficking, Gildan will decide not to engage in a particular
business relationship until such risks can be prevented. As an example, Gildan has undertaken to ban cotton
originating from Uzbekistan due to concerns of forced labour in the Uzbek cotton industry, or to avoid the use in
our products of certain minerals originating from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries (the
so-called ?conflict minerals?). For more information on these two commitments, please visit


 

For more information on our contractor due diligence process, please visit


Audits to evaluate supplier compliance with company standards for human trafficking and slavery in
supply chains

To ensure compliance with our Code of Conduct, we perform independent internal and third party working
conditions audits at each of our owned and contracted facilities manufacturing our products. The majority of the
audits are conducted by our trained internal auditors, while third party auditors are employed in some instances.
Some of our manufacturing contractors have been participating in the ILO Better Work Programme. Gildan?s
manufacturing facilities, as well as its contractors, are also independently audited by the FLA, WRAP and some of
our customers. Gildan?s goal is to visit 100% of its manufacturing facilities annually, including our third-party
contractors. Each manufacturing contractor is assessed based on risk and audited at least once in an 18-month
period.

Gildan?s Code of Conduct ts the foundation for all audits conducted at our manufacturing contractors? facilities.
Assessments are also based on the standards found in Gildan?s Sustainable Social and Environmental
Compliance Guidebook.

In addition, as part of the continuous improvement of our social compliance program, and as a leading best
practice, in the second half of fiscal 2014, we commenced the process of auditing key raw material suppliers.

For more information on our auditing practices, please visit 
compliance?.

Certification that materials used in production comply with slavery and human trafficking laws

To ensure that Gildan?s manufacturing contractors and major suppliers respect and adhere to Gildan?s
commitment against slavery and human trafficking, we require them to undertake in writing that they will adhere to
Gildan?s Code of Conduct, as well as all applicable laws. Such written undertaking is included in the contracts
signed by the manufacturing contractors and major suppliers, or as part of their annual certification process (when
applicable).

In addition, in cases where applicable, we also requir? manufacturing contractors or suppliers to provide written
undertakings of compliance with our ban on Uzbek cotton or ?conflict minerals?. For more information on these
initiatives, please visit 

 

Internal accountability and procedures for employees or contractors failing to meet company standards
regarding slavery and trafficking

Non-compliance with Gildan's Code of Conduct on slavery and human trafficking is taken very seriously by
Gildan. If such non-conformance occurs, we take remedial action to contain, address and resolve the situation in
the shortest possible delays. Such corrective action can lead to disciplinary action, up to and including termination
of employment at Gildan, or termination of a commercial agreement with Gildan.

Gildan will always first seek a viable remediation strategy with suppliers who have not achieved full compliance
with our Code of Conduct. Our team of internal auditors work with contractors to develop action plans to resolve
any instances of non-compliance. However, we may terminate a business relationship with a contractor if deemed
necessary.

For more information about our internal accountability mechanisms, please visit


Training on human trafficking and slavery

Gildan requires all of its employees to read, understand and certify their compliance with our Code of Ethics upon
hire. In addition, during 2016, all employees have participated in an interactive on-line course on our Code of
Ethics. We also offer regular specific training to our internal monitoring teams who work closely with our
management teams and our contractors, to ensure they are knowledgeable on our requirements and understand
the issues related to social compliance and human rights. Employees working in our manufacturing facilities are
also trained on our Code of Conduct.

We also provide training directly to our contractors and suppliers. For example, we have been providing training
for employees at each of our long-term Haitian sewing contractors on an ongoing basis. During 2014, training on
Gildan?s Code of Conduct was also provided to three major third party contractors in Mexico. In 2015, a refresher
course on Gildan?s Code of Conduct was provided to a total of 255 security personnel (all of whom are employed
by sub-contractors) across Gildan-owned operations. And finally, in September 2016, our regional compliance
team provided CSR orientation training to 15 suppliers in China. In addition, we provide yearly CSR compliance
re-fresher presentations to our suppliers in the framework of our ?Gildan Supplier Summits? organized at various
locations globally.

Conclusion

Our various policies and practices comprised in our CSR social compliance program are fundamental parts of our
efforts to ensure that slavery and human trafficking are not taking place in our supply chain and our operations.
We understand that the risk associated with slavery and human trafficking is not static, and we will continue our
approach to mitigating this risk in the years ahead. These efforts, as well as this disclosure, are reviewed by our
Board of Directors and updated annually.

This statement was approved by the Board of Directors of Gildan Activewear Inc. on May 3, 2017.

site Map 2002-2018
Privacy Ganfidentiality Gildan Activewear
Terms of Use All Rights Reserved

 
