(FD
Wacoal Home About Wacoal Europe Our Press Room News Events Global Sizing Guide Contact
Brands

Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement



Nara mara)

Wacoal Europe is committed to ensuring there is no modern slavery or human trafficking in our supply chain or
any part of our business. All of our direct employ operations across the globe comply with legal requirements for
the employment of and remuneration of al employees.

All of Wacoal Europe's garments are made in factories which are 100% owned by the Wacoal Group, joint
ventures with local companies or with partners of long standing relationship. We deal directly with those factories
and never through agents or 3rd parties. All of the factories are obliged to have accreditation to either the WRAP
organisation (Worldwide Responsible Accredited Production) or SMETA (Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audits).
Independent audits are used to gain and maintain this accreditation. These audits are carried out annually or
biennially by internationally respected organisations such as SGS, Bureau Veritas (BY) or Intertek Testing
Services (ITS). Any corrective action plans identified during the audits are followed up with the factory concerned
with a follow up audit arranged within 6 months to confirm completion.

Our raw materials are sourced directly from internationally known and respected companies. All of our suppliers
are obliged to test their fabric to ensure it is fit for purpose before sending deliveries to our factories. All of our

suppliers have been independently certified by the Oeko- Tex organisation and the fabric we use complies with
the regulations in the REACH legislation which prohibits the use of potentially harmful chemicals and dyestuffs.

In addition to the above in March 2016 we wrote to all of our raw material suppliers reaffirming our ethical
standards with particular reference to modern slavery and human trafficking. We have requested that senior
management from our suppliers respond in a positive way to the key points of the modern slavery and human
trafficking legislation. Using ihe ETI base code as a reference all of our suppliers have confirmed adherence io
those principles.

Our freight forwarding companies have also confirmed their compliance.

We will during 2016 continue to inform and raise awareness of the issue of modem slavery and human trafficking
within our organisation so that all employees can participate in ensuring we continue to comply with our
obligations.

For more information about the organisations mentioned above please visit the following websites

Wwrapcompliance.org?



 

 

The cookle settings on this website are
currently set to ?allow all cookies? to give
you the best experience possible. if you're
happy with this simply click OK below. You
can change your Settings any time at the
bottam of the page.

Wacoal Global Pink Ribbon Movement

ar iy teh)

Find out more about cookies 

Home AboutUs OurBrands PressRoom ContactUs Modern Slavery Act and Ethical Become a Stockist ss
Trading

 
