UNFORTUNATELY WE DO NOT SHIP TO THIS COUNTRY

 

soos Hh KAREN MILLEN 1

NEW IN SHOP INSPIRATION Search

 

MODERN SLAVERY ACT

KAREN MILLEN MODERN SLAVERY STATEMENT 2016/ 17

This statement has been published in accordance with Section 54, Part 6 of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 (Act). It provides an overview of our policies and sets out the
steps taken by Karen Millen Fashions Limited (Karen Millen) to prevent modern slavery and human trafficking in its business and supply chains during the financial year

ending 25 February 2017.
Introduction

Karen Millen conducts its business with open transparency and integrity at all times, treating all people with dignity and respect and complying with applicable laws
ond regulations. Karen Millen is committed to protecting and promoting human rights globally, including, but not limited to zero tolerance of child labour, forced labour

or other forms of coercion, fraud, deception, abuse of power or other means to achieve control over another person for the purpose of exploitation.

We recognise our responsibility to take a robust approach to slavery and human trafficking and acknowledge that our business must be aware of the risks and have

appropriate procedures and processes in place fo address concerns through the appropriate channels across the business.

Our business and supply chains

Karen Millen is a global retailer of own brand womenswear and has built a reputation for its quality, design and craftsmanship. The business operates online and in

stores over 65 countries across six continents. We operate through solus stores, franchise partners, and in concessions in department stores.

Our supply chain involves a diverse number of product types and processes. We source from approximately 50 product suppliers and 200 raw material suppliers

around the world. The average length of relationship with our product suppliers is nine years, some have been working with Karen Millen for over 20 years.
Policies
We have the following policies [together the Policies) in place to ensure that we are conducting business in an ethical and transparent manner:

1. Supplier Code of Conduct. This outlines the values and standards we expect of our suppliers, representatives and the other people we deal with to uphold. This
policy is based on the Ethical Trade Initiative Base Code and confirms that we will not tolerate or condone abuse of human rights within any part of our business
or supply chains and will take seriously any allegations that human rights are not properly respected.

2. Whistleblowing policy. We operate a whistleblowing policy so that all employees know that they can report concerns about how colleagues are being treated,
or practices within our business or supply chain, without fear of reprisals. All reports will be fully investigated and appropriate remedial action taken.

3. Cotton Sourcing Declaration. This confirms our ban on cotton sourced from Uzbekistan owing to ongoing concerns about forced labour, including forced child
labour. REACH policy. This reflects our compliance with EU regulations which aim te protect human health and the environment from dangerous substances.

4, Animal Testing and Animal Welfare Policy. This confirms our ban on the use of real fur and animal testing on cosmetic or hygiene products.

5. Suppliers are required to sign up to the Policies before we commit to working with them and they are required to abide by the terms of each for the duration of

our working relationship.

We periodically update the Policies to ensure their relevance and have done so recently with the Supplier Code of Conduct to ensure it specifically refers to our
intolerance of forced labour and our requirement for suppliers to implement appropriate controls to prevent modern slavery and notify Karen Millen immediately if they

become aware of any modern slavery within their supply chains.

Suppliers who breach these obligations will face appropriate actions which could include termination of their relationships.
Due diligence and audits of suppliers and supply chains

We audit our suppliers to ensure that they are complying with the Policies. The audits include, but are not limited to working conditions, health and safety, hours

worked, whether wages are above the legal minimum, ability to leave the premises after work shifts and whether any ID documents are held by the employers.

In cases where our suppliers have not met the expectations and standards laid out in our Policies, we have worked with them, offering support to help them improve.

We would terminate commercial relationships with these suppliers if no improvements are made over an agreed timeframe or if there was no commitment to make them.
cd i
Training

We make employees aware of our Policies on their induction into Karen Millen and the Policies are available as a reference for all online at [insert URL link]. We ore

committed to regularly reviewing the Policies and alerting all employees to changes when there are any.

We will be conducting training for our procurement,buying teams so that they understand the signs of modern slavery and what to do if they suspect that it is taking

place within our supply chain.

Beth Butterwick
Chief Executive Officer, Karen Millen

 

CUSTOMER SERVICE ONLINE INFORMATION DISCOVER KM NEWSLETTER
Contact Us My About Us Email address SIGN UP
FAQ's Account Careers
Delivery Size guide Terms Conditions
FOLLOW US
Returns Store Business Development

vy YP 

Locator
