equip

Brands
ces

Location

Careers

 

Modern Slavery Statement
Our Values

Equip Outdoor Technologies UK Lid specialise in the design and marketing of technical outdoor equipment. Our experienced and enthusiastic
team develop innovative designs, manufactured to the highest standard and brought to market throughout the world.

The human rights of all people working directly or indirectly for Equip are of the utmost importance to us. We recognise we have a
responsibility to protect and uphold these rights throughout our organisation and supply chain.

Any human rights abuses have no place in our business or in the world in which we live.

About the Act:

In October 2015 the UK Government's Modern Slavery Act 2015 (the ?Act?) came into force. Section 54 of this Act states that:

Certain organisations which supply goods or services in the UK to describe what they have done to eliminate modern slavery including human
trafficking from their supply chains and their own business for each financial year of the organisation.

Throughout our organisation, we take our social responsibilities very seriously and believe that as a business we have absolute responsibility
to bring a positive contribution to the lives of the people that work both directly and indirectly for Equip. People are our most valuable asset.

About Modem Slavery:

Modem slavery can take place in any country at any time.

Slavery (or its more common form - forced labour) can take on many forms in the modern supply chain. Examples of this include forced
overtime, bonded labour, trafficked labour and child labour.

Our belief is that modern slavery is ?one person or organisation depriving another of their liberty to exploit them for personal or commercial
gain?.

Our Factory Supply Chain:

Equip Outdoor Technologies operates two specialist outdoor brands Rab and Lowe Alpine.

Currently, our Rab supply chain has six major suppliers. This includes two suppliers in China and one supplier in Indonesia, Vietnam,
Myanmar and Bangladesh. Lowe Alpine has two major suppliers, both based in Vieinam. These major suppliers are called Tier 1A suppliers
and are the factories that supply us directly.

In addition to this, we have 15 secondary suppliers. Through our supply chain we indirectly employ over 8000 people through our suppliers.
With our product supply chain predominately situated in Asia we realise we must be extremely vigilant in ensuring standards are met.
However, it ls important to note that our UK operation should not be ignored an example. Not far from our head offices in the East Midlands
there has been recent publicity of slavery issues with in the warehousing industry in the form of zero hour contacts. We believe zero hour
contracts are a form of modern slavery. We do not and will not operate such practices.

Within our operation, we ensure that all staff are free from bond, and work for Equip Outdoor Technologies Limited because they wish to
rather than have to.

Our Commitment:

We take our responsibility fo protect and uphold human rights throughout our organisation and supply chain extremely seriously.
We do this by:
Insisting on fair and living wages In all the factories we work with

We make sure we work with partners in countries and areas that most benefit from the wages and employment that our business brings. We
understand we have the chance through to improve the lives of the people that work for us and Insist all employees of the factories we work
with are on a fair and living wage.

Build long term relationships with our suppliers.

This allows the factories we partner with to invest in both the individuals that work there and the facilities they can provide them with. We
understand long terms partnerships don't quarantee good working conditions, however we work hard to develop this over time and hope that
the influence Equip can have on suppliers will increases with time.

Ensure continuous production with suppliers.

People rely on consistent and regular earings. Brands that place orders once a year make it hard for factories to employ their workers
continuously. In contrast with this, we work in partnership with our factories to ensure individuals are able to earn every day of the year.

Minimise the number of short term deliveries.

thas been shown that short term deliveries can fuel the overtime issues that are common place in many factories. This is because when a
brand places an order with a short delivery time, the factory often increases overtime to meet deadlines. Whilst all overtime in all our factories
must voluntary; there can be an implied pressure, which can be hard to monitor. By avoiding short term deliveries, we reduce the chances of
this.

Our Actions:

We continuously assess our supply chain, visiting and auditing all our major suppliers.
In our larger suppliers factories, we have our own staff permanently based in the on-site. We also require all our factories to comply with our
CSR standards, and are monitored for their continuous compliance.

The Future:

Looking forward to 2017/18 we will ensure we:
Audit our smaller ter 1B suppliers throughout the next 12 months.
Assess the likely risk in the maternal suppliers we use to make the fabrics that our products are made from.

ns Rab ai

Registered Office: Wimeey Way, Somercotes, Alfreton, DESS 4L3. Registered in England No. 01168470
