In order to provide you with the best online experience this website uses cookies. By using our website, you agree to our use of cookies.

 

a
?9
Bridge of Weir Search 

FIMIE SCOTTISH LEATHER

Home Our Heritage Innovation Design Perfection in Leather Motoring Hall of Fame Contact Us



oe ss 
?it

 

 

(Jovernance

SLAVERY AND HUMAN TRAFFICKING STATEMENT

Introduction from the Managing Director

Slavery and human trafficking remains a hidden blight on our global society. We all have a responsibility to be alert to the risks, however
small, in our business and in the wider supply chain. Staff are expected to report concerns and management are expected to act upon
them.

Our Business
Bridge of Weir Leather Company is a privately owned UK based leather manufacturer supplying leather to the global
automotive industry.

scottish Leather Group Limited is the parent company of Bridge of Weir Leather Company. Scottish Leather Group
comprises of four leather manufacturing subsidiaries and a technology company; Andrew Muirhead Son Limited,
Bridge of Weir Leather Company Limited, W. J. and W. Lang Limited, NCT Leather Limited and SLG Technology Limited.

We have zero tolerance to slavery and human trafficking. We expect all those in our supply chain and contractors to
comply with our values.

All directors are responsible for compliance in their respective areas of responsibility and for their supplier relationships.

Training
To ensure a high level of understanding of the risks of modern slavery and human trafficking in our supply chains and
our business, we provide training to relevant members of staff. All directors have been briefed on the subject.

Our Effectiveness In Combating Slavery and Human Trafficking
We use the following key performance indicators (KPI's) to measure how effective we have been to ensure that slavery
and human trafficking is not taking place in any part of our business or supply chains:

Completion of business unit audits by directors and senior managers.
Use of labour monitoring and payroll systems; and

Level of communication and personal contact with the next link in the supply chains and their understanding of, and
compliance with, our expectations.

This statement is made pursuant to section 54(1) of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and constitutes our group's slavery
and human trafficking statement for the current financial year.

Karen Marshall

Managing Director

Bridge of Weir Leather Company Limited
Ist April 2016

Bridge of Weir Leather Company E-mail: sales@bowleather.co.uk ca ci
Baltic Works Tel: +44 (0) 1505 612132

Kilbarchan Road

Bridge of Weir 
Renfrewshire (tm - SPaen
3RH am fF ne a a} 
Scotland UKia a)

United Kingdom hs
.

AO



 

Career Opportunities Privacy Policy Site Map Contact Us a Scottish Leather Group Limited company Copyright 2015.
