Contact us

Ties Suits

ry

  
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
  
   
 

ramme
Pping
discount

Airways
ip

statement

Policy

TATION
ditions
licy

licy

eS

onditions

slate) aha

viel

vhatt Shirts Ltd.

Style hints 

news and updates by email

Terms conditions

Log in Shopping Bag

CHARLES 

a

JERMYN STREET LON Does

Shoes Casualwear Outerwear PNeteetci ates Womenswear Clearance

Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement

Charles Limited is committed to acting responsibly in all our business practices through making sound
decisions which take social, economic and environmental factors into account. We want to be part of a socially
and environmentally responsible supply chain, sourcing and delivering worldwide and choosing business
partners who share our company values and targets.

At Charles our values underpin everything we do. People matter, the well being of our employees is
crucially important to us and we continue to build long term business partnerships and long lasting
relationships with our supply chain based on fundamental principles of our Ethical Trading Policy.

The Charles Ethical Trading Policy outlines the commitments we make and the processes we require
from all our product suppliers to demonstrate compliance and good practices through the supply chain. Our
suppliers are required to submit an annual independent audit to confirm manufacturing standards, compliance
and good working practises are aligned to our Ethical Trading Policy. Our Technical and Buying teams regularly
visit the factories and require updates on worker engagement programmes, sustainability and reviews of any
corrective action plans. Informed by the best available information, we choose to work with suppliers who
demonstrate ethical practices above what would be considered the minimum.

The Charles Ethical Trading Policy is based on the UK Ethical Trading Initiative (ETI) base code and

our policies are based on International Labour Organisation (ILO) standards. This includes the key principles:-

Freedom of Employment

The right to collective bargaining and freedom of association are respected
Safe and hygienic working conditions

Child labour is not acceptable

All workers shall be paid a living wage

Working hours are not excessive

Discrimination shall not be practised

Regular Employment is provided

No harsh or inhumane treatment is allowed

Charles has a zero tolerance approach to modern slavery and human trafficking, which is reflected in
our policies and controls on Ethical Trading throughout our product supply chain. With over 40 product
suppliers based in 16 countries, some of whom we have been working with for more than 15 years, we have
established strong business partnerships. We will continue to nurture these relationships and remain true to our
values.

We plan to enhance and strengthen our current policies and practices in light of the Modern Slavery Act and
will provide an update on our progress in next year's statement.

David Boynton

Chief Executive Officer, Charles 
March 2017

Sizing
Our stores

guides

 

We accept:

 

Visa 

 

 

Shopping ts secure with Charles 

 

Cookie policy Privacy policy Modern slavery statement Student discount

ottons Lane, London 20G - Registered No. 2914928 - UK Vat No. 8211491 60 - info@ctshirts.co.uk

CHANGE COUNTRY 

ee BRITISH AIRWAYS
Executive Club

 
