ORIGINAL

LOG IN

GBP 

My GART

CHECKOUT

PF aa




Bilesingerar

FEATURES CLOTHING FOOTWEAR ACCESSORIES KIDSWEAR

St te St te? te?

FREE UK STANDARD DELIVERY ON ORDERS OVER ?50

 

HOME

DELIVERY RETURNS

Delivery
Returns

FAQS

Price Match Guarantee
oafety Security
shopping Ordering
Payment Options
Customer Care
Promotion Codes

MY ACCOUNT

Opening An Account

LEGAL

Terms Conditions
Privacy Cookie Policy
Modem Slavery Act

STORES

Covent Garden
Ashford
Cheshire Oaks
Gloucester
Livingston
Portsmouth
swindon

York

NEED 

If you have any questions or need
help with your account, please

contact Customer Care

CUSTOMER SERVICE

Monday to Friday
8am to 

saturday to Sunday
8am to 6pm

Contact Us:
0333 0144409

Email:


MODERN SLAVERY ACT

MODERN SLAVERY ACT

MODERN SLAVERY AGT POLICY STATEMENT

Perry Ellis Europe Limited believes that every person has a right to decent and humane working conditions. Accordingly, PEEL is
committed to ensuring that our business and supply chain reflects our values. We are dedicated to developing our practices and strictly prohibit

the use of forced or compulsory labor, slavery, and human trafficking.

PEEL is a wholly owned subsidiary of Perry Ellis International, Inc. (collectively, ?Company"); which has its corporate office in Miami, Florida,
United States. Perry Ellis International, Inc. through itself and wholly owned subsidiaries has approximately 2,/00 employees worldwide, with
offices and/or operations in the United States, Asia, Canada, Europe, and Mexico and has sourced goods and services globally for over 45
years. Perry Ellis International, Inc. is a global leader in the design, manufacturing, marketing and distribution of branded lifestyle apparel and

accessories.

Our intemal policies includes a Vendor Code of Conduct that outlines the minimum working and environmental conditions that all suppliers must
meet prior to conducting business with Company, ensuring that we are promoting and enforcing ethical behaviors in our supply chain. Our
Vendor Code of Conduct prohibits the use of child or forced labor and discrimination in employment. It also requires that lawful wages and
benefits are provided, health and safety standards are complied with, and environmental laws are adhered to. Below is an outline of the steps

we are taking to promote our efforts in this regard:

1. As a condition of doing business, we require our suppliers to certify in writing via the our Master Supply Aqreement and Vendor Code of
Conduct that they comply with all applicable laws within the country of business including those regarding slavery and human trafficking.

2. We maintain and enforce internal accountability procedures for our employees and compliance by direct suppliers regarding company
standards on slavery and human trafficking. In the case of non-compliance we reserve the right to investigate the situation and develop a
best possible strategy for resolution. lf non-compliance continues unresolved within a timely manner, we may terminate the business
relationship.

3. Regular audits are conducted on our direct suppliers. Direct suppliers are evaluated on their compliance with our code through
announced and unannounced audits conducted by our internal auditors and third party audit providers.

4. We conduct intemal training on our Vendor Code of Conduct to ensure the necessary participants who have direct responsibility for
supply chain management are Knowledgeable and aware of the issues and concerns surrounding the supply chain involving human
trafficking and slavery Including mitigating risks within the supply chain of products sourced by Company. We also strongly encourage
our supply chain to participate in extemal training programs and seminars on social compliance issues.

To download a copy of our Vendor Code of Conduct, please click the following 

This statement is made pursuant to section 54/1) of the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015 and constitutes our slavery and human trafficking

statement for the financial year ending January 30, 2016. This statement was approved by the Board of Perry Ellis Europe Limited.

 

 

CUSTOMER GARE SHOPPING TRUST ORIGINAL PENGUIN CONNEGT WITH ORIGINAL PENGUIN
Order Status My Account safety Security
Delivery Payment Options Terms Conditions
Returns stores Privacy Gookle Policy SUBSCRIBE AND SAVE 10%
Affiliate Program olze Chart Modem Slavery Act SIGN UP
FAQs alte Map
Accessibility Statement
?vise Some VISA TE Se.

Copyright 2015 Licensing, Inc. All rights reserved.
