To give you the best possible experience this site uses cookies. Using this site means you agree to our use of cookies. Find out more about the cookies we 4

use. View cookies policy.

WISHLIST am STORES

Prose Cio/hk

SHOES 

 

 

ao

NEWIN DRESSES CLOTHING accessories WEDDING INSPIRE ME STUDIO8 BRANDS SALE CLEARANCE

MODERN SLAVERY ACT TRANSPARENCY STATEMENT FOR FINANCIAL YEAR

2017/18

This transparency statement sets out the structure of Phase Eignt?s supply chain and some of the
steps we have taken to ensure that modern slavery and human trafficking are not present in our
business operations and supply chains. lt covers the financial year ending 31 March 2018 and has
been published in accordance with the Modern Slavery Act 2015 (the 

OUR BUSINESS ORGANISATION AND SUPPLY CHAIN

Phase Eight is a UK-based multi-channel brand. We operate in 21 territories through concessions,
Solus sites, wholesale, and web. We employ 2085 people worldwide, with 1555 employees in the
UK and across our 105 stores and 1/4 concessions, #17 in Head Office and 318 in our 2
international stores and 12/7 concessions across the globe.

Qur product is manufactured internationally across Europe and Asia. We have an active supply
base of 139 manufacturing sites comprising 101 factories through 41 suppliers and 36 factories
through agents. Our top 5 sourcing countries are China, Romania, Turkey, India and Greece. We
do not operate the factories that manufacture our products.

The sourcing department (comprised of Technical, Buying, Merchandising and Design) manages
Phase Eight brand supply chain. The CSR and Sustainability Executive sits within this department
to ensure that product and raw material suppliers are selected based on ethical and sustainable
credentials and considered together with commercial criteria.

POLICIES AND CONTRACTUAL CONTROLS

As part of our ever evolving ethical trading strategy based on the UN Guiding Principles on
Business and Human Rights and our Human Rights Due Diligence Framework we have developed
our operational policies with the view of respecting, protecting and remedying the human and
labour rights of all that work on our behalf.

Our core policies are our Supplier Code of Conduct, the Migrant Workers Employment Policy and
Implementation Guidelines and the Young Worker and Child Labour Policy .

 

 

 

 

Qur supplier Code of Conduct ("Code of Conduct?) is aligned with the Ethical Trading Initiative
(ETI) base code and outlines the minimum social and environmental standards we expect each
factory to meet and our expectations regarding the conditions in which our products should be
manufactured.

Our Migrant Workers Employment Policy and Implementation Guidelines set out the supplier
requirement to protect, respect and remedy the rights and welfare of migrant and contract
workers, some of the most vulnerable to exploitation and modern slavery. Within this policy,
Phase Eight endorses the Employer Pays Principle, which reflects the Dhaka Principles for
Migration with Dignity.

Our Young Worker and Child Labour Policy prohibits the recruitment of child workers in our
supply chains and outlines remediation guidelines.

Finally other policies that are also related to the prevention of modern slavery are our Anti Bribery
Policy, Whistleblowing Policy and Equal Opportunity Policy.

SEDEX MEMBERSHIP

In 2016 Phase Eight became members of the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange a not for
profit organisation dedicated to driving improvements in responsible and ethical business
practices in global supply chains. SEDEX allows suppliers to share the same data with multiple
customers, thereby reducing the need for multiple audits and allowing our suppliers to focus on
making improvements.

The SEDEA platform also enables members to report on trends across the supply chain and to
liaise with one another where indications of forced or bonded labour arise so that these can be
followed up.

We are currently working with Sedex to carry out a supplier outreach in order to link ourselves
with our suppliers through an online platform where suppliers share their latest audits with us.

FACTORY AUDITS

The Code of Conduct also sets out our requirements for factory audits from all factories in our
supply chain. We request that all new suppliers provide an audit based on a public methodology
from a recognised independent organisation, for example the SEDEX Members Ethical Trade Audit
(SMETA). Where a supplier is unable to provide such an audit we ask that suppliers fill in our own
audit form instead which requires, among other things, details of factory sites, employees, sub-
contractors and homeworkers, training and critical safety procedures, staff working hours and
wages, and environmental procedures.

In addition to the requirement for all factories to provide audits we will often visit the factories
themselves when we visit our suppliers.

We operate a whistleblowing policy aimed at our employees and our supply chain. All reports will
be fully investigated.

SUPPLY CHAIN MAPPING

Phase Eight acknowledges that its supply chain is constantly moving and that suppliers may be
added to its chain in line with Phase Eight'?s growth.

In 2017 we worked with our first-tler suppliers to ensure we have full clarity of the location of their
factories. In addition we started mapping our second-tier suppliers in conjunction with information
provided by our first-tier supply base. We will continue to update our supply chain map to reflect
changes to our supplier base.

TRAINING

In 201 we recruited a Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Executive to work with all
brands within the TFG Brands (London) group. Their mandate includes a risk analysis of our
sourcing countries and the implementation of additional steps to strengthen supply chain auditing
and verification.

Training on ethical buying, social compliance and factory engagement programmes Is planned for
the buying, design and senior management teams within Phase Eights? Head Office.

This statement has been approved by the Board of Phase Eight (Fashion Designs) Limited.

A (oy
Benja mipBorett,

Chief Executive Officer

Phase Eight (Fashion Designs) Limited

HERE TO HELP SHOPPING WITH US ABOUT US LEGAL

Contact Us Store Locator Our Story Terms Conditions

Delivery Size Guides Careers Privacy Policy

Returns Personal Styling Accessibility Cookies

FAQs Gift Cards Affiliate Fraudulent Websites

Website Feedback Gift Packaging Service Programme Gender Pay Policy
Sitemap a Modern Slavery Act

Tax Strategy

 

icy
Oo=> Poyro! sa TE 2018 Phase Eight (Fashion Designs) Limited

 

CONTACT US

Can We Help? 0208 8/7 4001

Be the first to know:

sign up to receive our latest news and offers

 

=r your email address. aeneTeel

 

 

 

Follow us Ww (0)
