To give you the best possible experience this site uses cookies. Using this site means you agree to our use of cookies. Find out more about the cookies we 
use. View cookies policy.

WISHLIST MY ACCOUNT STORES SEARCH

Pema: Sang il

NEW 

ARRIVALS DRESSES CLOTHING OCCASIONWEAR SHOES ACCESSORIES WEDDING INSPIRATION SALE 

Home

MODERN SLAVERY ACT TRANSPARENCY STATEMENT FOR FINANCIAL YEAR
2016/17

This transparency statement sets out the structure of Phase Eight?s supply chain and some of the
steps we have taken to ensure that modern slavery and human trafficking are not present in our
business operations and supply chains. It covers the financial year ending 1 April 201/ and has
been published in accordance with the Modern Slavery Act 2015 (the 

OUR BUSINESS ORGANISATION AND SUPPLY CHAIN

Phase Eight is a UK-based multi-channel brand. We operate in 26 territories through concessions,
solus sites, wholesale, and web. We employ 2116 people, with 1640 employees in the UK and 
across our 110 stores and 281 concessions, 193 in Head Office and 283 in our international
stores across the globe.

Phase Eight works with 100 suppliers with factories across Europe and Asia. Our supply base
comprises 45 factories through 45 suppliers, 5/ factories through agents, and an additional 10
factories used on the basis of sub-contracting. Our top 5 sourcing countries are China, Romania,
Turkey, India and Greece.

Phase Eight is a UK-based multi-channel brand that works with suppliers with factories across
Europe and Asia. Phase Eight does not operate the factories that manufacture our product and so
we ask all of our suppliers to commit to the to the Phase Eight Code of Conduct ("Code of
Conduct?) prior to placing orders with them.

POLICIES AND CONTRACTUAL CONTROLS

The Code of Conduct is based on Ethical Trading Initiative standards and sets out the
minimum requirements we expect of our suppliers in relation to working conditions, pay and
employment rights and the prevention of slavery and human trafficking in our supply chains.

 

The Code of Conduct demands that suppliers apply the same standards to any home workers and
third parties used in the production of our garments as they would their own employees. Phase
Eight asks its suppliers to work in a transparent way and provide full details of its sub-contractors
for monitoring purposes.

We reviewed our Code of Conduct in 2016 to ensure it is in line with the recommendations of the
Ell and we are committed to doing so on an annual basis.

SEDEX MEMBERSHIP

In 2016 Phase Eight becarme members of the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange a not for
profit organisation dedicated to driving improvements in responsible and ethical business
practices in global supply chains. SEDEA allows suppliers to share the same data with multiple
customers, thereby reducing the need for multiple audits and allowing our suppliers to focus on
making improvements.

The SEDEX platform also enables members to report on trends across the supply chain and to
liaise with one another where indications of forced or bonded labour arise so that these can be
followed up.

FACTORY AUDITS

The Code of Conduct also sets out our requirements for factory audits from all factories in our
supply chain. We request that all new suppliers provide an audit based on a public methodology
from a recognised independent organisation, for example the SEDEX Members Ethical Trade Audit
(SMETA). Where a supplier is unable to provide such an audit we ask that suppliers fill in our own
audit form instead which requires, among other things, details of factory sites, employees, sub-
contractors and homeworkers, training and critical safety procedures, staff working hours and
wages, and environmental procedures.

In addition to the requirement for all factories to provide audits we will often visit the factories
themselves when we visit our suppliers.

We operate a whistleblowing policy aimed principally at our employees But this is also available to
our supply chain. All reports will be fully investigated.

SUPPLY CHAIN MAPPING

Phase Eight acknowledges that its supply chain is constantly moving and that suppliers may be
added to its chain and others removed in line with Phase Eight?s growth. In #016 we disengaged
from our supplier database all suppliers we no longer work with. We also worked with our first-tier
suppliers to ensure we have full clarity of the location of the factories in our first-tier supplier base.

In 201 7 we will commence mapping the locations of our second-tier suppliers in conjunction with
information provided by our first-tler supply base. We will continue to update our supply chain
map to reflect changes to our supplier base.

TRAINING

In 201 we recruited a Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Executive to work with all
brands within the TFG Brands (London) group. Their mandate includes a risk analysis of our
sourcing countries and the implementation of additional steps to strengthen supply chain auditing
and verification.

Training on ethical buying, social compliance and factory engagement programmes Is planned for
the buying, design and senior management teams within Phase Eights? Head Office.

Although we have worked with some of our suppliers for many years we are prepared to move our
business elsewhere where problems are raised which cannot be fixed within a reasonable
timeframe.

This statement has been approved by the Board of Phase Eight (Fashion Designs) Limited..

(us


Chief Executive Officer

Phase Eight (Fashion Designs) Limited

 

  
 

FOLLOW US SIGN UP FOR OUR NEWSLETTER
HoGoes or ears fr
CUSTOMER CARE MORE ABOUT US STYLIST
. 1 
Size Guide Privacy policy About us Wedding Styling SiudioS 
Contact us Cookies Website Feedback Personal Styling EXCLUSIVELY FOR WOMEN UP TO SIZE 26
Delivery Accessibility Affiliate Programme Wedding Dress a
ean Sitemap Fraudulent Websites aad
ot Students Modern Slavery Act
oe Careers
Conditions
Gift Cards

sacri oi .oacierrnc 4 sar 
2017 Phase Eight (Fashion Designs) Limited JB PayPo| ES GY visa

