Tiel mea a ea Be ocd) ae md MR ad ae cookies. By using our website, you agree to our use of cookies. Read more tT 

 

Scottish Leather Group

90ut Us  OperatingCompanies Sustainability Achievements Contact Us

 

Home AA

 

(Governance

SLAVERY AND HUMAN TRAFFICKING STATEMENT

Introduction from the Chief Executive

Slavery and human trafficking remains a hidden blight on our global society. We all have a responsibility to be alert to the risks, however
small, in our business and in the wider supply chain. Staff are expected to report concerns and management are expected to act upon
them.

Organisation Structure

We are a group of leather manufacturing and associated companies. Scottish Leather Group Limited is the parent company of wholly
owned subsidiaries, Andrew Muirhead Son Limited, Bridge of Weir Leather Company Limited, NCT Leather Limited, SLG Technology
Limited and W.J W. Lang Limited. The group has its head office in the UK and all trading companies are in the UK. The group has an
annual turnover in excess of 

Our Business

Our business Is organised into five autonomous business units. We have zero tolerance to slavery and human trafficking. We expect all
those in our supply chain and contractors to comply with our values. All directors are responsible for compliance in their respective areas
of responsibility and for their supplier relationships.

Training
To ensure a high level of understanding of the risks of modern slavery and human trafficking in our supply chains and our business, we
provide training to relevant members of staff. All directors have been briefed on the subject

Our Effectiveness in Combating Slavery and Human Trafficking
We use the following key performance indicators (KPI's) to measure how effective we have been to ensure that slavery and human
trafficking is not taking place in any part of our business or supply chains:

Completion of business unit audits by directors and senior managers.
Use of labour monitoring and payroll systems; and

Level of communication and personal contact with the next link in the supply chains and their understanding of, and compliance with, our
expectations

This statement is made pursuant to section 54(1) of the Modem Slavery Act 2015 and constitutes our group's slavery and human
trafficking statement for the current financial year.

lain McFadyen

Chief Executive Officer
Scottish Leather Group Limited

1st April 2018

Scottish Leather Group E-mail:

Locher House 
Kilbarchan Road Telephone +44 (0)1505 691730 cee i.
Bridge of Weir EA
Renfrewshire TOP
SRN TRACK

scotland

United Kingdom

 

Career Opportunities Privacy Policy SiteMap Contact Us Copyright 2017
