

Scottish Leather Group

 

SLAVERY AND HUMAN TRAFFICKING STATEMENT

Govemance
Introduction from the Chief Executive

es 2 Slavery and human trafficking remains a hidden blight on our global society. We all have a responsibility to be alert to the
risks, however small, in our business and in the wider supply chain. Staff are expected to report concerns and management

Operating Companies
are expected to act upon them.

arte]

 

erat Organisation's Structure
3 We are a group of leather manufacturing and associated companies. Scottish Leather Group Limited is the parent company
of wholly owned subsidiaries, Andrew Muirhead Son Limited, Bridge of Weir Leather Company Limited, NCT Leather
Limited, SLG Technology Limited and W.J W. Lang Limited. The group has its head office in the UK and all trading

companies are in the UK.

The group has an annual turnover in excess of 

Our Business
Our business is organised into five autonomous business units.

We have zero tolerance to slavery and human trafficking. We expect all thase In our supply chain and contractors to comply
with our values.

All directors are responsible for compliance in their respective areas of responsibility and for their supplier relationships.

7 Training

To ensure a high level of understanding of the risks of modern slavery and human trafficking in our supply chains and our
business, we provide training to relevant members of staff. All directors have been briefed on the subject.

Our Effectiveness In Combating Slavery and Human Trafficking

We use the following key performance indicators (KPI's) to measure how effective we have been to ensure that slavery and
human trafficking is not taking place in any part of our business or supply chains:

3 Completion of business unit audits by directors and senior managers.
Use of labour monitoring and payroll systems; and

3 Level of communication and personal contact with the next link in the supply chains and their understanding of, and
compliance with, our expectations.

This statement is made pursuant to section 54/1) of the Modem Slavery Act 2015 and constitutes our group's slavery and
human trafficking statement for the current financial year.

lain McFadyen

Chief Executive Officer
scottish Leather Group Limited
(st April 2016

Copyright? 2012SLG Home Career Opportunities ContactUs Privacy Statement Cookies Site Map INN EST I cfaisleZ2o2 6 [oislEX2021 7@7 

Renfrewshire FOR UK CITY OF CULTURE

 
